############# I'm default separator ##########1
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -interlocutory decisions - leave required - principles applicableto leave toappeal
BHO is a 54 year old man who incurred a severe traumatic brain injury when he fell from a ladder in 2010. He is involved in litigation relating to workers compensation and medical negligence. His former wife alleges that he recently assaulted her. That matter is listed for hearing on 27 May 2014. Because of concerns relating to BHO's involvement in various court proceedings, the First Respondent, his rehabilitation case manager, applied to the Guardianship Division of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal for a guardianship order. 
The Appellant, a solicitor, applied for leave to represent BHO. The Guardianship Division refused his application for an adjournment and then refused to give leave for him to represent BHO. The Appellant has appealed to the Appeal Panel against those decisions. Because the decisions are interlocutory decisions the Appellant requires the Appeal Panel's permission before the appeal can go ahead. 
We refuse to give BHM permission to appeal against the Guardianship Division's decisions for two reasons. Firstly it is not necessary to do so to ensure the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 35. Secondly, it is not necessary to give leave to ensure that BHO's interests are given paramount consideration: Guardianship Act 1987
BHM purported to appeal against seven orders or decisions that he said the Guardianship Division had made on 6 May 2014. BHM is only entitled to appeal against interlocutory decisions which come within the definition of that term and to which he was a party. Interlocutory decisions are defined in s 4 of the NCAT Act: 
An interlocutory issue or decision is, generally speaking, a decision that does not finally determine the rights of the parties. The Guardianship Division made the following two interlocutory decisions on 6 May 2014: (1) The Tribunal refuses leave to [BHM], an Australian legal practitioner, to represent [BHO] in all proceedings pending at the Tribunal. (2) BHO be separately represented in all proceedings pending before the Tribunal.
While the Guardianship Division did not make a formal order refusing BHM's application for an adjournment, the tape recording of the hearing discloses that the Senior Member refused that application, if not expressly, then impliedly. 
As BHM was not a party to the guardianship application, he is not entitled to appeal against the decision to appoint a separate representative for BHO. The only two interlocutory decisions made on 6 May 2014 to which BHM was a party, were the decisions to refuse him leave to represent BHO and the decision to refuse to adjourn that application. 
The general rule in the Guardianship Division is that a party has the carriage of his or her own case and is not entitled to be represented by any other person: NCAT Act, s 45(1)(a). A party may be represented by another person only if the Tribunal grants leave for the person to represent the party: NCAT Act s 45(1)(b). 
The Tribunal may, at its discretion, grant or refuse leave under s 45(1)(b). The person who applies for leave to represent a party is a party to that application but not to the proceedings generally.
NCAT is empowered to "adjourn proceedings to any time and place": NCAT Act, s 51. 
The Appeal Panel's permission, or leave, is required before a person can appeal against an "interlocutory decision": NCAT Act, s 80(2)(a). The legislation does not provide any guidance as to the considerations that are relevant when determining whether to grant leave. Those principles must be derived from the objects of the Act and the nature of the appeal. 
The 'guiding principle' of the NCAT Act is "to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings": s 36. The purpose of requiring leave to appeal from interlocutory decisions is to save costs and to make sure that the real issues in dispute are determined justly and quickly. But the importance and complexity of the subject matter is also relevant: 
Finally, it is critical to bear in mind the general principles in the Guardianship Act 1987
While there is no rigid test or criteria for the granting of leave, the Supreme Court has set out relevant principles which, depending on the circumstances, may also apply to the Appeal Panel when considering leave applications against interlocutory decisions.
Some of the principles which we regard as relevant to this appeal were summarised by Campbell JA in Jaycar Pty Ltd v Lombardo [2011] NSWCA 284 at  [46]: 
The degree of injustice that would be suffered by the respective parties as a consequence of any order or direction is another relevant consideration: Civil Procedure Act 2005 (NSW), s 58(2)(b)(vi).
BHM submitted that the prejudice to BHO if leave is refused is that he will be deprived of the opportunity to have a legal representative of his choosing and with whom he can communicate. 
The difficulty with this submission is that BHO's ability to provide instructions to a solicitor is in doubt. The basis for the Guardianship Division's decisions to refuse an adjournment and refuse leave for BHM to represent BHO, was that there was evidence both from medical practitioners and from BHM himself, that BHO is not capable of providing instructions to a solicitor. That evidence included a report from Dr Alexandra Walker, a neuropsychologist, who expressed the view in a report dated 15 April 2014 that, even with assistance, BHO is incapable of providing meaningful and informed legal instructions to his solicitor.
BHM is the subject of a financial management order. The NSW Trustee is his financial manager. The NSW Trustee needs to approve any proceedings instigated by or against BHO because of the potential financial implications that such proceedings may have. The NSW Trustee has a fee agreement with BHM in relation to proceedings for professional negligence against one of BHO's former psychiatrists and in relation to his defence of BHO against the charge of assaulting his former wife. 
A client must have the capacity to enter a contract for legal services. A lawyer must be reasonably satisfied that their client has the mental capacity to give instructions. Otherwise, he or she must not represent the client: Goddard Elliott (a firm) v Fritsch [2012] VSC 87 at  [569] per Bell J. Based on the evidence before it, the Guardianship Division decided that it was preferable for BHO to be represented by a "separate representative" whose role it is to conduct the proceedings in his best interests. 
BHM submitted that the Guardianship Division breached the rules of procedural fairness by failing to grant him an adjournment. He said that he wished to obtain a full copy of the guardianship application and the material referred to in that application before applying for leave to represent BHO. 
The Guardianship Division refused the adjournment and went on to determine BHM's application for leave. We do not consider that the decision to refuse the adjournment involved any breach of procedural fairness in circumstances where the threshold issue was BHO's capacity to instruct a solicitor. BHM was aware of BHO's limitations and acknowledged that while BHO could provide factual information, he was not capable of providing instructions in relation to the forensic or strategic aspects of litigation to which he was a party. 
We have concluded that leave to appeal against two interlocutory decisions of the Guardianship Division should be refused because: (1) this appeal involves no question of principle which is subject to doubt nor will refusing leave result in any injustice;  (2) the welfare and interests of BHO are best served by the appointment of a separate representative in circumstances where there is strong evidence that he lacks capacity to instruct a solicitor;  (3) granting leave would unnecessarily delay the matter which is listed for hearing on 20 May 2014; and (4) granting leave would subject the parties to further costs which would be disproportionate to the issue in dispute.
############# I'm default separator ##########2
Retail lease - costs at first instance and on appeal
############# I'm default separator ##########3
Application for review of decision under Births, Deaths and Marriages Act1995 - jurisdiction - concurrent proceedings in District Court - whetherapplication should be stayed
These appeal proceedings have many unusual features and require extended consideration.
The decision under appeal ('the ADT's decision') was given in the General Division of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal ('ADT') by the President of the ADT, Judge Kevin O'Connor. It was published on 30 August 2013 and is reported as OnePath Life Limited, Allianz Australia Life Insurance Limited and Suncorp Life and Superannuation Limited v NSW Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages and Gerasimov [2013] NSWADT 196. The principal orders made by the ADT comprised the rejection of an objection to jurisdiction and an order staying the proceedings pending resolution of concurrent proceedings in the District Court. 
An appeal against the stay order and a cross appeal challenging the rejection of the objection to jurisdiction were heard by us, sitting as an Appeal Panel of the ADT, on 23 December 2013.
On 1 January 2014, the ADT was abolished and its functions were taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales ('NCAT'). The present decision is therefore a decision of an Appeal Panel of NCAT. But because the proceedings to which it relates are 'part heard proceedings' as defined in clause 6(1) of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, they are to be determined as if that Act had not been enacted (see clause 7(3)(b) of this Schedule). 
The ensuing outline of relevant facts is based in part on the account given in paragraphs [1] to [9] and [18] to [21] of the ADT's decision.
The three Appellants/Cross Respondents are insurance companies. Henceforth, we will refer to them (as the ADT did) as 'the insurers'. The First Respondent/Fourth Cross Respondent is the Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages ('the Registrar'). The Second Respondent/Cross Appellant, Sergey Gerasimov, is the executor named in the will of Vladimir Ivanovich Safronov.
On 10 March 2011, the Registrar made an entry in the Births, Deaths and Marriages Register ('the Register'), recording the death of a person named as Vladimir Ivanovich Safronov. Mr Safronov was an Australian citizen of Russian origin. Having been resident in New South Wales for some time, he travelled to Russia in October 2009. The entry in the Register stated that on 7 March 2010 he died, aged 47 years, at Kharkov in the Ukraine. 
Section 36(4) of the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Act 1995
In registering Mr Safronov's death, the Registrar relied on official documents, such as a Certificate of Death and a Crematorium Certificate, that had been issued in the Ukraine. These stated that a morgue in that country had received a corpse identified as that of Mr Safronov by a person, Oleg Zhirnoklev, who claimed to be a friend of his. Mr Gerasimov had provided these documents to the Registrar during February 2011.
On or about 24 February 2011, Mr Gerasimov applied to the Registrar for a death certificate relating to Mr Safronov. The Registrar issued a certificate bearing the standard certification that it was a true copy of particulars recorded on the Register. It was dated 19 March 2011.
Each of the insurers had issued a life policy to Mr Safronov during 2007. They were separate policies, each with a death benefit of $400,000. 
In his capacity as executor, Mr Gerasimov claimed payment of the amount due under each of the policies. In letters written on 21 February, 1 March and 16 March 2011, the insurers declined his claims. They maintained that documentation that they themselves had obtained from the Ukraine included (a) a photograph of a deceased man that purported to be a photograph of Mr Safronov but clearly was of someone else and (b) material relating to this photograph that ascribed an incorrect date of birth to him. They enclosed copies of this photograph and accompanying documentation.
In letters dated 25 or 28 March 2011 to the insurers, Mr Gerasimov's solicitors agreed that the deceased man shown in the photograph was not Mr Safronov and that the date of birth was incorrect. They maintained, however, that the 'death certification material' of Mr Safronov, which the Ministry of Home Affairs in the Ukraine had provided to Mr Gerasimov, and the death certificate dated 19 March 2011 that the Registrar had issued in New South Wales confirmed 'unequivocally' that Mr Safronov had died. They enclosed copies of these documents.
It was stated in the ADT's decision at [22] that 'the material is not clear as to when the insurers first knew of either the decision to enter the death on the Register or the decision to issue the death certificate'. But as we have just indicated, the letters written to them on 25 or 28 March 2011 included a statement that a death certificate had been issued in New South Wales and enclosed a copy of this certificate, bearing the date 19 March 2011.
The insurers maintained their denial of Mr Gerasimov's claims under the life insurance policies. During September 2011, he instituted proceedings against them in the District Court. Those proceedings have been adjourned pending resolution of the insurers' application to the ADT for review of the Registrar's decision. 
In a letter dated 22 November 2012 to the Registrar (a copy of which was sent to the executor's solicitors), the insurers' solicitors referred to Mr Gerasimov's application, made on or about 24 February 2011, for 'a Death Certificate in relation to the alleged death of Mr Vladimir Safronov'. They then stated as follows: 'A copy of the Death Certificate dated 23 May 2012 is enclosed for your reference'. 
We note, however, that a copy of this letter annexed to an affidavit made by Mr Nicholas Olson, a member of the firm of solicitors acting for the insurers' solicitors, was accompanied by a copy of the death certificate dated 19 March 2011. We have not located in the evidence tendered to the ADT any copy of a certificate dated 23 May 2012.
In their letter dated 22 November 2012 to the Registrar, the insurers' solicitors also listed the documents that they understood Mr Gerasimov to have presented in support of the application for the death certificate. They maintained, however, that the findings made by the investigators whom they had retained cast doubt on the veracity of the evidence on which the Registrar had relied. They enclosed copies of the investigators' reports. One of the conclusions recorded in these reports was that the honesty of Mr Zhirnoklev was open to serious doubt.
This letter to the Registrar concluded as follows:-
Mr Gerasimov's solicitors subsequently wrote to the Registrar opposing any reopening of the matter.
After some delay and further requests for action by the insurers' solicitors, the Registrar replied as follows in a letter to them dated 26 April 2013:-
On 23 May 2013, the insurers applied to the ADT for review of the following decisions of the Registrar: (a) his decision to include particulars of Mr Safronov's death on the Register; (b) his decision not to conduct an internal review of this decision under section 53 of the ADT Act; (c) his decision not to conduct an inquiry into this decision under section 44 of the BDMR Act; and (d) (as an alternative to (c)) his failure to make a decision as to whether to conduct such an inquiry.
The form of application filed by the insurers specified 26 April 2013 as the 'date of decision for review'. It pleaded, inter alia, that on 23 May 2012 the Registrar issued a death certificate 'certifying the record of Safronov's death in the NSW Register'. It made no reference to the issue of any such certificate on 19 March 2011.
The hearing before the ADT commenced on 8 July 2013. Subsequently, the President advised the parties by a letter dated 19 July 2013 that he wished to hear further argument on a number of 'points of concern'. These were set out in his letter. A further hearing relating to them took place on 7 August 2013. 
The Registrar appeared at these hearings and made submissions on certain points at the request of the ADT. He stated through his counsel that he would abide any decision that it reached. 
Mr Gerasimov, who had successfully applied to join the proceedings as the second respondent, opposed the ADT's dealing with the insurers' application. He claimed that it was not competent and had no jurisdiction to entertain this application. 
The insurers emphasised to the ADT that they were concerned about the probative effect of the death certificate, if it were allowed to stand, in the District Court proceedings instituted by Mr Gerasimov. They stated that in their belief the official documents from the Ukraine on which the Registrar relied when issuing the death certificate contained particulars as to the corpse that were inconsistent with certain physical features of Mr Safronov. They also referred to the investigations that they had commissioned in Russia and the Ukraine, leading them to suspect that the claims under the policies were in aid of a fraud.
Before outlining the ADT's decision, we should reproduce a number of provisions of the BDMR Act and the ADT Act, in the form that they took at the time of the hearing by the ADT. The ADT's decision quoted at length from a number of them.
The relevant provisions of the BDMR Act are as follows:-
The following sections and subsections of the now-repealed ADT Act should be quoted:-
In the opening paragraph of this decision, the ADT stated: 'Three insurance companies have applied to the Tribunal for review of the decision of the Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages to issue a death certificate on 23 May 2012 under the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Act 1995 (BDMR Act).' 
As explained above, however, the insurers' application did not expressly seek review of a decision by the Registrar to issue a death certificate. It referred instead to the four other aspects of the Registrar's performance of his statutory functions that we have listed at [22]. 
At [6] and [17], the ADT qualified in an important way its description of the subject matter of the proceedings. In the earlier of these two paragraphs, it said:-
At [5], the ADT stated: 'As noted, the death certificate was issued on 23 May 2012...' At [18], it said of the letter dated 22 November 2012 from the insurers' solicitors to the Registrar that it was 'sent six months after the death certificate issued'. The assumption underlying these statements was clearly that, as this letter asserted, the Registrar issued a death certificate relating to Mr Safronov on 23 May 2012. But for reasons explained above at [17], there appears to be no evidence that this occurred. The only death certificate that we have located in the documentary evidence admitted by the ADT was the certificate dated 19 March 2011.
At [25], the ADT embarked on a discussion of some of the 'points of concern' which it had drawn to the parties' attention following the first day of hearing. It described the first of these concerns as being 'whether a person could enter the decision-making pyramid [i.e., the process established by the ADT Act for the review of reviewable decisions] for the first time at the internal review stage'. At 25] and 26], it answered this question as follows:- 
At [28 - 31], the ADT dealt with an argument, put by Mr Gerasimov, that the letter of 22 November 2012 from the insurers' solicitors to the Registrar was not such as would have 'led an administrator to conclude that s 53 of the ADT Act was being engaged'. The following extracts from this part of the ADT's decision sufficiently indicate its response to this argument:-
At [32 - 36], the ADT held, however, that although in its opinion the letter of 22 November 2012 did not sufficiently 'engage' the operation of section 53 of the ADT Act, this did not necessarily mean that the insurers' application to it must fail. A further submission by Mr Gerasimov that it addressed in reaching this result was that certain time limits stipulated in sections 53 and 55 had not been complied with. The ADT's reasoning on these matters was as follows:-
The ADT then dealt as follows with another argument put by Mr Gerasimov:-
The concluding paragraphs of the ADT's decision set out the reasons why, after dismissing Mr Gerasimov's claim that it lacked jurisdiction, it did not proceed to deal with the substantive issues raised by the insurers' application for review. The ADT stated:-
The orders made in the ADT's decision were in the following terms:-
As noted earlier, this decision of the ADT was the subject of an appeal by the insurers and a cross appeal by Mr Gerasimov. It is convenient to deal first with the cross appeal, since if it were to succeed the questions raised by the insurers' appeal would not require resolution.
The Notice of Cross Appeal asserted that the ADT had erred in law in three respects. 
First, it misconstrued sections 53(1) and 55(1)(a) of the ADT Act so as to conclude that any person (such as the insurers) who was 'dissatisfied' with a decision of the Registrar was an 'interested person' within the meaning of those provisions and could therefore apply both for an internal review of the decision and for review by the ADT.
Secondly, it misconstrued section 55(1)(b) of this Act so as to conclude that the insurers could apply to the ADT for a review of the Registrar's decision even though, being entitled (in its opinion) to seek an internal review, they had not 'duly applied' for such a review. 
Thirdly, it erred in deciding that by virtue of section 55(3)(b) it could entertain the insurers' application to it and should not dismiss this application, even though, being entitled (in its opinion) to seek an internal review, they had not 'duly applied' for such a review.
These submissions were principally concerned with the first of the three grounds of the cross appeal. Mr Bingham, counsel for Mr Gerasimov, argued in this connection that the ADT should have (a) construed the term 'interested person' in sections 53(1) and 55(1)(a) of the ADT Act as being confined to persons whose interests were immediately and directly affected by the relevant decision made by an administrator, (b) found that the insurers' interests were not affected in this specific way by the Registrar's decision and (c) held accordingly that they were not entitled to apply either for an internal review or for review by the ADT.
In developing this argument, Mr Bingham advanced the following propositions:-
Mr Bingham submitted that the facts in Alphapharm resembled those of the present proceedings, to the extent that it should be regarded as determining in the executor's favour the question whether the insurers were 'interested persons'. In that case, a drug company secured registration on the Therapeutic Drugs Register of a drug in relation to which it held the Australian patent. Competing drug companies sought review of the Minister's decision to grant registration, claiming to be 'persons whose interests are affected' by this decision. The Federal Court rejected this claim, on the ground that the competitors' interests, being purely commercial, were not relevant to the purpose of the registration statute. This was to ensure that drugs imported into Australia were safe and suitable for human use. 
Referring specifically to sections 3, 38, 44 and 45 of the BDMR Act, Mr Bingham argued as follows: (a) the purpose of this Act was to provide a system of registration of certain information; (b) section 38 conferred on the Registrar a 'narrow registration function', not involving the resolution of disputed issues of fact; and (c) that the Act dealt with such issues only by empowering the Registrar to conduct an inquiry under section 44 and requiring him to correct the registrar if so ordered by a court under section 45. 
Having regard to these matters, he maintained, it could not be said that the possible use by an executor of a death certificate as rebuttable evidence (pursuant to section 49) of the death described in it was sufficient to render insurers who had issued life policies 'persons interested' in the Registrar's decision to register the death. In fact, the insurers' purely commercial interest in the present proceedings was only in the outcome of the District Court proceedings that the executor had instituted, not in the Registrar's decision. According to the principles stated by Brennan J in McHattan, such an interest did not make them 'persons whose interests are affected' by this decision.
Finally, Mr Bingham argued that the category of 'interested persons' falling within sections 53(1) and 55(1)(a) of the ADT Act must necessarily be co-extensive with the category of 'interested persons' to whom an administrator, such as the Registrar, was required to give written notice of a decision under section 48(1). His reasoning involved the following propositions: (a) the status of 'interested person' under section 48(1) was a pre-requisite to being entitled to seek an internal review; (b) it could not be the case that a person who could not seek an internal review might be entitled to apply to the ADT for review of a decision; and (c) accordingly, recognition of an insurer as an 'interested person' under section 55(1)(a) would have the 'absurd' result of requiring the Registrar to notify every insurer of a deceased person of a decision to register that person's death.
With regard to the second and third grounds of the cross appeal, Mr Bingham contended that the insurers had not made any application for the ADT to exercise the 'dispensing power' conferred on it by section 55(3)(b) and that the ADT had made no finding as to any of the matters on which the exercise of this power depended (namely, that its dealing with their application for review was necessary to protect their interests and that their application was made within a reasonable time following the Registrar's decision). It followed, he said, that the ADT had no power to continue to deal with this application and was obliged to dismiss it.
The submissions of Mr Walsh, who appeared as counsel for the insurers, contained two arguments bearing upon the first and most substantial ground of the cross appeal.
The first of these was that by virtue of the definition of 'interested person' in section 4 of the ADT Act, the question whether the insurers were 'interested persons' under section 55(1)(a) depended on whether under the relevant provision of the BDMR Act they were entitled to apply to the ADT for a review of the Registrar's decision to register the death of Mr Safronov. As had been held in the ADT's decision at [37], the relevant provision of the BDMR Act, section 56(1), conferred this entitlement on any person who was 'dissatisfied' with the decision. Clearly, the insurers fell within the range of 'dissatisfied' persons.
Secondly, Mr Walsh argued that the range of persons to whom an administrator, such as the Registrar, was obliged by section 48(1) of the ADT Act to give notice of a reviewable decision was not necessarily co-extensive with the range of persons who were 'interested' in the decision for the purposes of section 53(1) or section 55(1)(a). This followed from the simple consideration that an administrator was quite likely to be unaware of the full range of persons who were 'interested' in his or her decision. The language of section 48(1) took account of this consideration in so far as it required an administrator only to 'take such steps as are reasonable in the circumstances' to give notice to interested persons.
With regard to the second and third grounds of the cross appeal, Mr Walsh's contentions were that section 55(3)(b) did not stipulate that its dispensing power could only be exercised if the party seeking its exercise made an application to this effect and that the ADT, by granting a stay of the proceedings before it, had left unresolved the question whether it should exercise this power.
In our opinion, the cross appeal must be dismissed, for the reasons (broadly speaking) urged by Mr Walsh. We would add only the following brief observation.
The combined effect of section 4 of the ADT Act and section 56(1) of the BDMR Act was to substitute 'dissatisfied persons' for 'interested persons' as the category of people who could apply to the ADT under section 55(1)(a) of the ADT Act for review of decisions by the Registrar. But even if the relevant category were that of 'interested persons' - which for reasons set out in the decisions on standing cited by Mr Bingham would appear to be narrower than 'dissatisfied persons' - we believe that the insurers would still be entitled to apply for review. We do not see how an insurance company that is obliged to pay out money under a life insurance policy can be regarded as not 'interested' in a decision by a responsible state authority, having evidential consequences, that the policy holder has died and that his or her death should be entered on an official register.
For the foregoing reasons, the cross appeal must be dismissed.
Order 2 in the ADT's decision was a stay order. Because it involved the exercise of an 'interlocutory function' as defined in section 24A(1) of the ADT Act, the insurers accepted that by virtue of section 113(2A) of this Act leave to prosecute the appeal was required.
Mr Bingham's submissions included the proposition that the insurers did not identify any grounds for a grant of leave. He did not elaborate on this proposition.
The stay order purports to leave to the District Court the task of deciding whether or not the Register was correct in stating that Mr Safronov had died. If the Court performs this task, it will resolve the fundamental question raised in the insurers' application to the ADT. For these reasons, the stay order, although interlocutory, is of substantial significance for the determination of this application. 
In these circumstances, we are satisfied that leave to appeal should be granted.
It is useful to record at this point that at interlocutory hearings in the District Court proceedings on 18 October 2013 and 23 December 2013 (the latter date being the date of the appeal hearing before us), the Court indicated that those proceedings would be held in abeyance pending our decision on the appeal and cross appeal.
The fundamental proposition advanced by Mr Walsh on behalf of the insurers was that the making of the stay order constituted an erroneous exercise of the discretion conferred on the ADT by the provisions of the ADT Act (sections 73(1) and 73(3)) on which it relied. 
He argued that the ADT's decision to grant the stay was apparently based on two grounds: (a) that there was no 'utility' in 'having the Tribunal proceed at this stage' (see the decision at [38]) and (b) that the evidentiary effect of the death certificate in the District Court proceedings was not significant enough to justify the ADT's getting 'involved' (see [41]).
He argued that these two grounds were inadequate, particularly because the practical effect of granting the stay would be to render 'nugatory' the insurers' application and deprive them of a remedy made available to them by the BDMR Act (namely, review by the ADT of the Registrar's decision to register Mr Safronov's death). 
With specific reference to the first ground, he submitted that considerations of 'utility' should not have the effect of defeating a party's claim for relief. In addition, he claimed that, unlike the ADT, the District Court would have no power to order the Registrar to correct the register if, in the course of resolving the proceedings between Mr Gerasimov and the insurers, it found that Mr Safronov had not died as stated in the register. Although such a power appeared to be conferred on the Court by section 45(2) of the BDMR Act, this was not the case because (as was held by Campbell JA in Dayeian v Davidson [2010] NSWCA 42;  (2010) 76 NSWLR 512 at 522;  [2010] NSWCA 42 at  [38]) this Court has no jurisdiction to make orders in the nature of prerogative relief. 
As to the second ground, Mr Walsh's submissions were as follows: (i) the evidentiary effect given by section 49(2) of the BDMR Act to the death certificate was not a matter of which judicial notice could be taken; (ii) the executor should have adduced evidence as to the weight that would be attributed to the certificate; (iii) in the absence of such evidence, the ADT's finding was purely 'speculative'; and (iv) the ADT erred also in failing to give sufficient reasons for this finding. 
A further argument made by Mr Walsh was that in making the stay order, the ADT denied procedural fairness to the insurers. This, he said, was because they had not been put on notice that a stay order was under consideration.
Two additional submissions put by Mr Walsh focused on the ADT's rulings relating to the requirement of internal review. 
The first of these was that the ADT erred in ruling that the letter of 22 November 2012 from the insurers' solicitors to the Register did not constitute an application for internal review as required by section 55(1)b) of the ADT Act. Mr Walsh relied here particularly on the fact that the Registrar's reply dated 26 April 2013 included the phrase 'I note you have requested a review of the Registrar's decision...'
The second was that the ADT was obliged in the circumstances of the case to give effect to its stated opinion that it should exercise the 'dispensing power' granted to it by section 55(3) and allow the insurers' application to proceed even though it had found that they had not 'duly applied' for an internal review of the Registrar's decision under section 55(1)(b). It should then have heard this application on its merits and reached a decision with regard to it.
Finally, Mr Walsh submitted that the ADT had erred in failing to deal with a submission, made by the insurers in response to the President's letter to the parties dated 19 July 2013, that it should remit the matter to the Registrar (under section 63(3)(d) of the ADT Act) on the ground that he had not 'engaged with the substance of' the insurers' application'. This omission by the ADT to deal with an argument put to it amounted, according to Mr Walsh, to an error of law.
With reference to the ADT's power to stay or adjourn proceedings under section 73(1) and (3) of the ADT Act, Mr Bingham relied on two recent decisions of the ADT: Complete Wardrobes & Showerscreens Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2013] NSWADT 67 and Betta Industries Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2013] NSWADT 68. The facts in these two cases were virtually identical. In both of them, the Tribunal, by consent, adjourned the hearing of an application for review of a decision on liability to payroll tax made by the respondent Commissioner, pending the delivery by the Court of Appeal of a judgment that would bear directly on the outcome of the proceedings.
In Complete Wardrobes at [47 - 48], after quoting extracts from the High Court's judgments in Aon Risk Services Australia Limited v Australian National University [2009] HCA 27;  (2009) 239 CLR 175 emphasising the importance of minimising delay in court proceedings, the ADT said:-
On the footing that these decisions sufficiently illustrated that the ADT's discretion was broad enough to support the stay order made in the present case, Mr Bingham argued, quoting from Constantin v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force (GD)  [2013] NSWADTAP 16 at  [34], that 'Appeal Panels should not lightly interfere with Tribunal decisions made after full consideration of all the evidence, especially where broad discretions are being exercised'.
As to the question of the 'utility' of the ADT proceedings, Mr Bingham argued that the ADT's finding was correct, for the following four reasons. 
First, the evidence relating to the alleged death of Mr Safronov that would be put either before the Registrar (if the matter were remitted to him by the ADT, whether for an internal review of his decision or for the conduct of an inquiry under section 44 of the BDMR Act) or before the ADT itself (if it proceeded to review the Registrar's decision) would be less extensive than the evidence that (it could be anticipated) would be put before the District Court. The reasons for this include the following: (i) the Registrar's primary duty under section 36 of the BDMR Act is to register a death on the receipt of one or more of the documents specified in section 38(1); (ii) the Registrar's resources cannot permit more than a limited inquiry under section 44(1); (iii) his power to obtain evidence from relevant witnesses when conducting such an inquiry is restricted by section 44(2) to requiring them to 'answer specified questions or provide other information', whereas at the hearing in the District Court evidence can be given orally in chief and can be tested in cross-examination; and (iv) during interlocutory hearings in the Court, the insurers made it clear that aspects of their evidence in support of their claim of fraud would not be disclosed until cross-examination by their counsel of relevant witnesses at the substantive hearing.
Secondly, the question whether Mr Safronov died as stated in the entry on the Register was bound to be litigated in the District Court proceedings irrespective of whether the ADT heard and determined the insurers' application. Accordingly, the ADT's decision to stay its proceedings had the beneficial effects of avoiding significant delay, duplication of proceedings and an unnecessary escalation of costs.
Thirdly, if the ADT did not stay its proceedings, the undesirable possibility arose that its decision on this question might be inconsistent with that of the Court.
Fourthly, contrary to Mr Walsh's assertion, the statutory power conferred on courts by section 45(2) of the BDMR Act to require correction of the register was applicable to all courts. There was no express limitation of the power to courts possessing jurisdiction to make orders in the nature of prerogative relief and no reason why such a limitation should be implied.
Mr Bingham's submissions regarding the ADT's conclusion as to the evidentiary effect (under section 49(2) of the BDMR Act) of the death certificate were to the following effect.
First, this conclusion was not a finding of fact (which would have to fall within the principle of judicial notice or be supported by evidence), but a 'discretionary judgment' that the ADT was entitled to make.
Secondly, the insurers had given notice that the ground on which they would contend in the District Court that Mr Safronov's death should not have been registered was that registration, both in the Ukraine and in New South Wales, had been procured by fraud. Because they would be alleging and seeking to prove fraud, their evidence would have to be sufficiently cogent and compelling to satisfy well-known principles stemming from the judgment of Dixon J in Briginshaw v Briginshaw [1938] HCA 34;  (1938) 60 CLR 336. If their evidence complied with these requirements, it would 'blow away' any presumption established by the registration of the death in New South Wales.
Thirdly, the situation as regards evidence of Mr Safronov's death in the District Court proceedings would not be substantially different even if, as sought by the insurers, the registration of this death in New South Wales were to be set aside by the Registrar or by order of the ADT. The documentary evidence on which the registration was based - notably, the official documents issued in the Ukraine - could still be tendered by the executor as prima facie evidence of the death.
In response to Mr Walsh's claim that his clients had not been put on notice that a stay order might be made, Mr Bingham referred to passages in Mr Gerasimov's submissions to the ADT arguing in favour of an adjournment of the ADT proceedings until after the hearing and determination of the District Court proceedings.
In contesting the argument that the solicitors' letter of 22 November 2012 constituted an application for internal review, Mr Bingham relied on the reasons set out in the ADT's decision at [28 - 31]. He also made the following points: (i) if the Registrar had recognised this letter as an application of this nature, he would have conducted a review and advised the insurers of its outcome of the review within 21 days, as required by section 53(6); (ii) in fact, he did not reply until 26 April 2013; and (iii) it was in any event for the ADT, not the Registrar, to determine whether such an application had been 'duly made'.
As to the insurers' reliance on the 'dispensing power' in section 55(3)(b), Mr Bingham maintained that since the insurers had never invoked this provision in their submissions to the ADT and since for this reason Mr Gerasimov had never had the opportunity to argue against its use, any claim that the ADT could or should have made an order under it in the insurers' favour was 'wholly unsustainable'. He added that the argument that would have been advanced by Mr Gerasimov would have included a claim that, because the 'fraud case' foreshadowed by them in the District Court proceedings would have 'overwhelmed the evidentiary effect' of the death certificate that the Registrar had issued, any exercise of the 'dispensing power' by the ADT would not have been 'necessary to protect the [insurers'] interests' as required by section 55(3)(b). 
A further matter urged by Mr Bingham in this context was that the insurers' delay in communicating with the Registrar would count significantly against them. They had been notified of the issue of the death certificate in March 2011, but had not sought any form of review by the Registrar of his decision to register the death until twenty months later, in November 2012.
Finally, Mr Bingham's response to the claim that the ADT had erred by failing to deal with the insurers' submission that it should remit the matter to the Registrar was as follows. On account of the ADT's finding that they had not 'duly applied' for an internal review, there was no application before it that it could remit to the Registrar. 
We are satisfied, broadly on account of the reasons advanced by Mr Bingham, that the ADT did not err in exercising its discretion to stay the proceedings before it pending resolution of the District Court proceedings. We add the following observations.
The decision in Complete Wardrobes provides sufficient authority for the proposition that, in appropriate circumstances, the ADT could stay or adjourn proceedings until a question on which their outcome was dependent had been authoritatively determined in proceedings already instituted in another forum. That decision did not, in our opinion, turn on the fact that the application for adjournment had the support of both parties.
No argument put by Mr Walsh was sufficient to counter Mr Bingham's contention that, in the circumstances that had arisen, continuation of the ADT proceedings would in all likelihood result in increased delay, duplication of proceedings and increased costs for all concerned (including the State). Any conclusion reached by the ADT as to the correctness of the registration of Mr Safronov's death would not be binding on the District Court. Unless matters took an unexpected turn, this question would be relitigated by the parties when the Court came to hear the proceedings between them.
Mr Bingham's submission that any court, not merely a court possessing jurisdiction to make orders in the nature of prerogative relief, may order correction of the Register under section 45(2) of the BDMR Act receives support from the conferment of comparable powers on 'a court' in sections 36(2), 37 and 38(2). It is noteworthy that in section 37 the range of courts specified includes 'any court of another State or the Commonwealth'. In none of these provisions is there any express or implied limitation such as Mr Walsh claimed to exist.
After careful consideration, we have formed the view that in the substantive hearing of the District Court proceedings, not a great deal would be likely to turn on the question whether Mr Gerasimov, in seeking to prove the death of Mr Safronov, came armed with documentation that he obtained from the Ukraine plus the death certificate issued in New South Wales or merely with the Ukraine documentation. It is possible - we can say no more than this - that he would feel obliged to call Mr Zhirnoklev as a witness and expose him to cross-examination if he could not make use of the NSW certificate, but could avoid doing so if this certificate remained available to him. But in either scenario, the insurers' case would, we understand, be based wholly or substantially on evidence of fraud that their investigators would provide. If that evidence were cogent and compelling (as required by Briginshaw) to the extent that it would override the evidentiary impact of the Ukrainian documentation, it would be sufficient also to override the combined evidentiary impact of this documentation and the NSW death certificate. We base this view substantially on the fact that the Registrar's decision to register Mr Safronov's death was based wholly or very substantially on the Ukraine documentation.
We do not agree with one proposition that Mr Bingham advanced with relation to the 'dispensing power' in section 55(3) of the ADT Act: namely, that it could not be exercised in the absence of any application for its exercise by a party to the proceedings. The subsection does not impose any such requirement. But we accept his argument that it should not be exercised unless a party who would or might oppose its exercise has been given the opportunity to make submissions on the matter. 
In any event, it is clear to us, despite Mr Walsh's argument to the contrary, that the ADT did not indicate that it was disposed to make an order in the insurers' favour under section 55(3). It went no further than to draw attention to this provision. This follows from its use of the words 'I will not in this decision turn my mind to that question...' appearing at the commencement of the third sentence of paragraph [38]. The matter is put beyond doubt by the fact that Order 3 in the ADT's decision contemplates a possible hearing, after the outcome of the District Court proceedings has become known, 'in relation to the exercise of the discretion under s 55(3) of the ADT Act'.
For the foregoing reasons, both the appeal and the cross appeal must be dismissed. These relate respectively to Orders 2 and 1 in the ADT's decision.
We see no reason to disturb Order 3 of this decision. Since 1 January 2014, the term 'Registrar' in this Order must be read as meaning the Registrar of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales and the term 'Tribunal' as the Administrative and Equal Opportunity Division of this Tribunal.
As we observed earlier in these reasons, the District Court has indicated at two interlocutory hearings since the publication of the ADT's decision (held on 18 October 2013 and 23 December 2013 respectively) that it awaits the outcome of the insurers' application to the ADT. We therefore think it advisable to permit relisting in circumstances other than those defined in Order 3. The simplest expedient is to grant liberty to the parties to apply on three days' notice.
############# I'm default separator ##########4
APPEAL - whether a question of law - extend appeal to the merits - norequirement for a question of law to be granted leave to extendto merits reviewPROCEDURE - transitional matters - jurisdiction of NCAT Appeal Panel -law governing the appeal
Wright J, P Molony, P Smith AM: The appellant, Mr McInnes, who appeared in person, appealed against two decisions of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT) in its General Division. The Tribunal had affirmed decisions of the respondent, the Department of Education and Communities, to refuse access to certain pages containing information to which Mr McInnes had sought access under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 (GIPA Act). Ms Stathis, an officer of the respondent, was granted leave by the Appeal Panel to represent the respondent at the hearing. 
At the end of the hearing before the Appeal Panel on 12 February 2014 the Panel indicated it would make certain orders and then provide written reasons within a short period. The following orders were made:  (1) The appeal on a question of law be dismissed.
To summarise the reasons which are set out below, these orders were made because: (1) The grounds of appeal relied upon do not raise questions of law within the scope of s 113(2)(a) of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (ADT Act) and in any event no error of law by the Tribunal was established; and
On 1 January 2014, the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales (NCAT) was established and on its establishment the ADT was abolished: see Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act), s 7 and cl 3 of Schedule 1.
By operation of cl 7(1) of Schedule 1 to the Act, this appeal is taken to have been duly commenced in NCAT and may be heard and determined by NCAT. For this purpose, under cl 7(3) NCAT has and may exercise all the functions which the ADT previously had and the applicable legislation is that which would have applied if the NCAT legislation had not been enacted. Consequently, the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (ADT Act) as in force at 31 December 2013 and the GIPA Act apply to this appeal. In particular, Part 1 of Ch 7 of the ADT Act which deals with internal appeals to the Appeal Panel of the ADT applies to this appeal even though it is being heard by the Appeal Panel of NCAT. 
As a result, Mr McInnes has the right to appeal on a question of law under the ADT Act, s 113(2)(a). Further, under s 113(2)(b), he has also sought the leave of the Appeal Panel to have the appeal extended to a review of the merits of the decision. 
The Tribunal at first instances found the that Mr McInnes had contacted the Child Protection Investigation Directorate (CPID) in 1996 alleging that he was assaulted and abused by a teacher when he was a student at a New South Wales Public School some decades ago. The CPID, now called the Employee Performance and Conduct Directorate (EPAC), commenced an investigation but concluded there was not enough evidence to sustain the allegations. In 2007 he applied under the Freedom of Information Act 1989 (FOI Act) for access to the CPID file and was provided with 235 pages of which 17 pages of information were redacted in whole or in part. 
On 13 September 2012 the appellant applied to the respondent for access to pages 181 and 182 of the file. These pages are part of the 17 pages to which the appellant was denied access in 2007. This application was refused. On internal review, however, three lines of information from page 181 and two lines from page 182 were provided to the appellant. The appellant applied to the ADT for review of this decision (matter 133088).
On 15 October 2012 the appellant made a second access application in relation to the remaining 15 pages of the CPID file under the GIPA Act. Access was refused but on internal review one line from page 21 was provided. The appellant applied to the ADT for review of this decision (matter 133040). 
The two applications were dealt with together. It was not in dispute that the information subject to the applications is government information held by an agency: GIPA Act, s 4(1). After the parties had filed their respective written material (evidence and submissions), it appears that there was no oral hearing and the matters were decided on the papers. 
In its reasons for decision, the Tribunal referred to the relevant legislative provisions of the GIPA Act and set out its understanding of what the Tribunal was required to do in [17] as follows:
The appellant did not contend that there was any error of law by the Tribunal in this regard. 
The Tribunal drew attention to the statutory presumption, and the general public interest, in favour of disclosure of the information in question. In addition, the Tribunal accepted that there were additional specific public interest considerations in favour of disclosure that were applicable "albeit it in the most general sense" and should be considered in the required weighing or balancing process - see [10], [18], [21] and [22]. Once again, this was not said by the appellant to involve any error of law. 
The Tribunal then went on to find that there were public interest considerations against disclosure. Those considerations to which the Tribunal attached significant weight were summarised at [58]: 
Finally, the Tribunal weighed the public interest considerations in favour of disclosure and those against disclosure. It concluded that the respondent had discharged the onus under s 105 of the GIPA Act and that there was an overriding public interest against disclosure of the information redacted in the documents in question: at [59]. Mr McInnes did not seek to argue that any specific error of law was involved in this process. 
Mr McInnes's notice of appeal identified two matters under the heading "The question of law arising from the Tribunal's decision is" as follows:
The respondent contended that neither of these matters raised any question of law. 
Mr McInnes's oral submissions were in substance that information that was not true had been put before the Tribunal at first instance and this was not lawful. Mr McInnes's case was not that the material Mr McInnes maintains was untrue was received in breach of the rules of procedural fairness or as a result of some other error of law on the part of the Tribunal. Rather, his point was that it was wrong for an officer of the respondent to put before the Tribunal information that was not true. 
It is appropriate to deal with each item of information which was said to be untrue separately. 
Whether or not the information concerning contact with a teacher in 2002 was untrue, this ground as formulated by Mr McInnes does not raise a question of law. 
It is also clear from the Tribunal's decision that Mr McInnes had had the opportunity to respond to the statement of Mr Ray concerning Mr McInnes's having had some contact with a teacher in 2002 which Mr McInnes said was not true. At [16] of her reasons, Judicial Member Isenberg noted:
Further and in any event, the Tribunal's reasoning did not depend upon or refer to any contact in 2002 as relevant. 
Even if it were accepted that this information concerning contact in 2002 was untrue, there was no legal or other error by the Tribunal in how it dealt with that information. 
The second matter said to be untrue was that it was possible that the appellant may have known some of the personal information which had been redacted. Once again, as formulated, this ground does not raise a question of law. 
Further, the material complained of does not appear to have been a statement of fact put before the Tribunal by the respondent by way of evidence. Rather it appears to the Panel to have been an acknowledgement or submission. It was accepted by all parties that Mr McInnes "had located the whereabouts of the teacher and had contacted her" in 2005. Having regard to that material, the respondent was acknowledging that on this basis it could be inferred, and in that sense it was possible, that Mr McInnes may have known some of the personal information which had been redacted. Thus, the Panel does not accept that what was put to the Tribunal (as recorded at [45]) concerning the possibility that Mr McInnes already having knowledge of certain personal information could amount to putting false information to the Tribunal. 
In the circumstances, this complaint made by Mr McInnes is not established. Moreover, even if false information had been put before the Tribunal by the respondent as Mr McInnes contended, there is no basis for concluding that the Tribunal made any error of law in how it received or dealt with the material. 
The matters relied upon by Mr McInnes do not raise questions of law within the scope of the ADT Act, s 113(2)(a) and no error of law by the Tribunal has been made out. Accordingly, the Appeal Panel must dismiss the appeal on the questions of law. 
Mr McInnes also sought leave to have the appeal extended to review the merits of the Tribunal's decision. The basis for this part of the appeal was stated to be:
The Appeal Panel decided to refuse leave for a number of reasons. First, there was no error of law in the Tribunal's reasons for decision or in its conduct of the proceedings for the reasons set out above. Thus, there was no requirement to reconsider the merits of the matter on that basis. It should be noted, however, that an application for leave of the Appeal Panel under s 113(2)(b) to extend to a merits review does not require the applicant first to demonstrate or argue an error of law: Lloyd v Veterinary Surgeons Investing Committee  [2005] NSWCA 456;  65 NSWLR 245 at  [14] and [60]-[63] (per Tobias JA, with Spigelman CJ agreeing). 
Secondly, even if the information concerning contact in 2002 was not true it was not apparently accepted by the Tribunal. It was not the subject of any finding nor did it appear to have had any impact on the Tribunal's reasoning. The Tribunal's consideration of that information is set out above at [21] of these reasons. A review of the merits of the decision would not be justified as the prospects of the Appeal Panel reaching a different conclusion depending upon whether or not the information that "[i]n 2002 Mr McInnes came into contact with [the teacher] by coincidence" (to quote paragraph 34 of Mr Ray's statement which was before the Tribunal at first instance) was untrue are insubstantial. 
Thirdly, even if the Tribunal accepted that it was not true that it was possible that Mr McInnes may have known some of the personal information which had been redacted this does not assist his case. If in fact he did not know that information, then it would more readily be found that disclosure of that information could be reasonably expected to have revealed an individual's person information within the GIPA Act, item 3(a) of the Table to s 14. This consideration tells against rather than in favour of disclosure, which is what Mr McInnes was seeking. 
Finally, none of the material or submissions before the Appeal Panel suggested that there would be any injustice in this case in refusing leave to extend the appeal to a review of the merits of the decision under appeal. 
For these reasons, leave to extend the appeal to a review of the merits was refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########5
APPEAL - Appeal on question of law - procedural fairness - appeal on meritsof Tribunal's decision - application for review out oftime - whether reasonableexplanation for the delay
The Commissioner of Police has appealed against a decision of the Tribunal granting Mr Turner an extension of time to lodge an application for review under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 (GIPA Act). Because that decision is an interlocutory decision, the Commissioner requires leave before the appeal can go ahead. The Appeal Panel granted leave on 18 September 2013. 
The questions on the appeal are whether the Tribunal made an error of law when deciding to extend time and whether leave should be granted for the Appeal Panel to re-consider the merits of the Tribunal's decision: Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (ADT Act) s 113(2).
I have decided that the Tribunal denied the Commissioner procedural fairness and misconstrued the provision relating to the extension of time. In those circumstances, I have extended the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision and re-considered the decision. My decision is to refuse to extend time for Mr Turner to apply for a review of the Commissioner's decision because he has not provided a "reasonable excuse" for the delay.
On 1 January 2014, the Administrative Decisions Tribunal was abolished and its jurisdiction was taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT). In accordance with the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act), these proceedings are part-heard proceedings and are to be determined under the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (ADT Act): NCAT Act, Schedule 1, cl 7(3). 
This matter was heard on 4 November 2013, with Mr Turner appearing by phone. The material on which the Commissioner relied included a written submission dated 12 September 2013, a statement of Grace Thangasamy, solicitor, Sparke Helmore, Lawyers dated 1 November 2013 and a statement of Darren Brand, Co-ordinator Information Access and Subpoena Unit with NSW Police Force. The lawyer for the Commissioner provided written submissions and cross-examined Mr Turner.
Although no directions were made for the filing of further evidence or submissions at the hearing on 4 November 2013, Mr Turner filed a twenty-five page submission with the Tribunal on 15 November 2013. He said in that submission that he had not received the faxed copy of the Commissioner's submissions and evidence before the hearing concluded on 4 November 2013. I have taken Mr Turner's further submissions into account. 
Mr Turner is in prison. On 22 July 2011 he applied to the Commissioner for access to certain information under the GIPA Act. The Commissioner identified 230 pages of information as falling within the scope of that application. On 17 April 2012 the Commissioner made a determination to grant access to the majority of the information but to refuse to release parts of the information. 
Section 101(1) of the GIPA Act gives Mr Turner 40 working days to apply to the Tribunal for a review of the Commissioner's decision. Notice is deemed to have been given on the day the determination is posted: s 126(2). Mr Turner's evidence was that he in fact received the determination on 27 April 2012 but he now does not recall the exact date. Regardless of the date Mr Turner actually received the notice, the 40 working days runs from the date of postage which, according to Mr Brand's undisputed evidence, was 17 April 2012. Mr Turner had until 15 June 2012 to file his application with the Tribunal. His application was registered on 14 November 2012, approximately 5 months out of time.
Following receipt of his application, the Tribunal held a planning meeting on 29 January 2013. The Tribunal directed the parties to file and serve submissions and evidence by 5 March 2013. No directions were made in relation to the out of time issue. On 15 March 2013 the Commissioner filed written submissions noting that Mr Turner had not sought leave in writing for an extension of time as required by s 101(5) of the GIPA Act. The Commissioner expressly reserved his right to make further submissions if the Applicant did make such an application.
On 19 March 2013 Mr Turner wrote to the Tribunal saying in part, "[T]he applicant now requests an extension of time for reviewable decision be granted" and "[I]f it is deemed necessary by the ADT for applicant to apply for an extension of time the applicant will do so." Mr Turner also set out the reasons for filing the application out of time. 
On 7 May 2013 at the second planning meeting, the Judicial Member said that he had considered the parties' written submissions and had decided to allow Mr Turner's application for an extension of time. The Judicial Member provided ex tempore reasons and made further directions in relation to the progress of the matter. 
On 14 May 2013, the Commissioner requested written reasons for the Tribunal's decision and the Tribunal provided those reasons on 10 July 2013: Turner v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2013] NSWADT 157.
The Commissioner submitted that the Tribunal did not afford him procedural fairness when determining the out of time issue. I am satisfied that the Tribunal breached the rules of procedural fairness by extending time to lodge the application without giving the Commissioner an opportunity to respond to the Applicant's evidence or submissions. Although the Commissioner had filed submissions concerning an anticipated application, the Commissioner had expressly reserved the right to make further submissions if an application was made. Until an application for an extension of time had been made, the Commissioner did not know what evidence Mr Turner would rely on or what submissions he would make in support of the application. Nor was the Commissioner on notice that the Tribunal was going to determine the out of time issue at the planning meeting. 
With respect, what the Tribunal should have done when it was clear that the Commissioner opposed Mr Turner's application for an extension of time, was to give the Commissioner an opportunity to file evidence and submissions in response to his application and set the matter down for a preliminary hearing on that point. 
The Commissioner also submitted that the Tribunal had misconstrued the provision relating to extensions of time. Section 101 provides that:
Section 101(1) sets out the general rule that an application for administrative review must be made with 40 working days after notice is given. Sub-section (4) gives the Tribunal power to extend the time for the making of an application, "if the Tribunal is of the opinion that the person has provided a reasonable excuse for the delay in making the application." 
Relying on the decision in Saleam v Registrar, Registry of Births, Deaths & Marriages  [2011] NSWADT 254, the Tribunal set out the factors that it considered relevant in determining whether to accept an application out of time. As well as whether there was a 'reasonable excuse for the delay', those factors included any prejudice to the parties, the merits of the case and the public interest. The relevant provision in Saleam was s 57 of the ADT Act. That provision is in similar terms to s 101(4) of the GIPA Act except that it uses the term "reasonable explanation" rather than "reasonable excuse". 
Because providing a "reasonable explanation" or a 'reasonable excuse" is all that the Tribunal has to form an opinion about, other considerations such as the merits of the application for review, any prejudice to either party or the public interest are not relevant. The Tribunal made an error of law by taking these other matters into account in reaching its decision. 
The appropriate course is to grant leave to extend the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision: ADT Act, s 113(2). The other option would have been to remit the matter to the Tribunal for further determination. It is quicker and more efficient to determine the issue myself. The only prejudice to Mr Turner of not remitting the matter is that he will be denied the opportunity to appeal to the Appeal Panel against a further decision of the Tribunal. While that is arguably a disadvantage to him, avoiding further delay outweighs that consideration. The question for me to determine is whether Mr Turner has provided a "reasonable excuse for the delay". 
The reasons Mr Turner gave in his application for review, for filing a late application were as follows:
Mr Turner also relies on a 588 page submission that he filed in these proceedings as setting out further reasons for the delay. He also filed two documents which were admitted into evidence. The first was filed on 23 October 2013 and the second on 4 November 2013. These documents are a mixture of evidence and submissions. On the basis of these documents, the oral evidence Mr Turner gave at the hearing and his later written submissions, the excuses he gave for the delay can be summarised as follows:
In his submission lodged on 12 November 2013, Mr Turner states that he lodged an application for review, a fee waiver application and a 588 page submission with the Tribunal on 1 September 2012. He says the documents were returned to him without an explanation as to why his material had been rejected. Mr Turner says he contacted the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) and NSW Ombudsman to lodge a complaint about the Tribunal's conduct in returning his application. In subsequent weeks, ICAC told him that their jurisdiction did not include matters concerning the Tribunal. After that Mr Turner says he telephoned the Tribunal and was told that his application for review and fee waiver had been denied. 
The 588 page submission which Mr Turner says he sent to the Tribunal is dated 1 September 2012 and refers to the "decision to be reviewed" as the decision made on 17 April 2012 by NSW Police. The first page of the document also contains the following information:
On the basis of the following letter from the Registry dated 31 October 2012, no application for review or application for fee waiver was lodged with the 588 page document. The application form and fee waiver were not lodged until 30 October 2012. 
It appears that Mr Turner intended to file the 588 page, not only in relation to this matter but in relation to another matter that were before the Appeal Panel. That is the inference that can be drawn from the note under the heading 'Inclusive' on the front cover of his submission. It can also be inferred from the following passage from an Appeal Panel decision in Turner v Director of Public Prosecutions (GD)  [2013] NSWADTAP 27 (20 May 2013) at [14] - [15]:
In the Tribunal's reasons in this matter at first instance, the Judicial Member referred to the Appeal Panel's decision and made the following observation at [20]:
I find on the basis all the evidence that Mr Turner sent the 588 page document to the Tribunal on 1 September 2012 or shortly thereafter. Because there was no fee paid or fee waiver application included, the Tribunal returned the documents to Mr Turner, apparently without explanation. Mr Turner then made a complaint to ICAC about the Tribunal's conduct. After being told that ICAC did not have jurisdiction, Mr Turner finally lodged an application for review, an application for fee waiver and the 588 page submission on 30 October 2012. The application for fee waiver was rejected. Mr Turner then paid the filing fee and successfully lodged his application on 14 November 2012. 
Although Mr Turner did not lodge an application in the correct form on 1 September 2012, I am satisfied that it was his intention to apply to the Tribunal for a review of the Commissioner's decision on that date. The Tribunal returned that document without explanation. I am of the opinion that for the purpose of determining the out of time issue, Mr Turner has a reasonable excuse for the delay after 1 September 2012.
One of the reasons Mr Turner gave for applying late was that he had other matters on foot in the Tribunal at the time. On 13 March 2012 Mr Turner participated in a planning meeting by phone in the matter of Turner v Director of Public Prosecutions (file number 12 3013). At that planning meeting the Judicial Member directed Mr Turner to file and serve certain material by 30 April 2012. On 24 September 2012 the Tribunal made a decision in relation to that matter: Turner v Director of Public Prosecutions  [2012] NSWADT 198. At  [22] of that decision the Tribunal notes that the applicant made "detailed submissions." 
Mr Turner was also involved in a second matter in the Tribunal against Corrective Services at the time. Mr Turner did not appear at the initial planning meeting of that matter but directions were made for him to file and serve material by 31 May 2012. In the reasons for decision the Tribunal noted that Mr Turner had filed written submissions in support of his application. The Tribunal added at [41] that, "those submissions extend to some 230 pages of mostly handwritten material." Turner v Corrective Services NSW  [2013] NSWADT 39.
I am satisfied that Mr Turner was engaged with two other matters in the Tribunal in April and May 2012 and that those matters would have taken up a significant amount of his time. Any application for review in this matter was due on 15 June 2012 less than two weeks after the date for the completion of his submissions at the end of May. Mr Turner had a reasonable excuse for not filing an application at least until the end of May 2012. It remains to be determined whether he has a reasonable excuse for the three months of June, July and August 2012. 
Mr Turner repeatedly emphasised that he is in custody and has been denied access to his legal files. He said he was transferred between 10 different correctional centres in 2012 and was denied access to his files for certain unidentified periods. During inmate transfers, legal property is held at prison reception at which time there is no access to legal files. He added that, "It is simply not permitted, on most occasions." 
The Commissioner's response to these submissions was twofold. Firstly, Mr Turner admitted under cross-examination that it would take him approximately 10 minutes to complete an application for review to the Tribunal. The Commissioner also submitted that when Mr Turner did apply, his application for review was very simple. He gave the following grounds for review:
Mr Turner said that he was under the impression that he needed to file submissions at the time of lodging his application for review. That appears to have been Mr Turner's practice in relation to other matters and it is what he ultimately did in these proceedings. I accept that that was his understanding.
It is unsurprising that Mr Turner has not kept a record of the dates when his legal files were not available to him, but that makes it difficult to determine whether lack of access to his files provides a reasonable excuse for the delay in filing. I am satisfied that lack of access to his files was a reasonable excuse for some unknown but relatively short period between June and August. 
Mr Turner asserts that he was forced into the Protection Section (non-association) soon after receiving the 17 April 2012 decision. He says that "non-association" inmates do not receive library access and phone calls are limited. Mr Turner did not say when or for how long he was in the Protection Section. 
Being in the Protection Section in April or May 2012 did not prevent Mr Turner from writing submissions in relation to other matters at about that time. It does not provide a reasonable explanation for the delay from June to August 2012. 
Mr Turner made lengthy submission about being denied access to a library or material in the library. He said that, "At times such items as paper to write on had been denied - Library Portal Access denied - Law book access denied and so on." He does not provide any dates on which these materials or access were denied. 
The Commissioner's response to this submission was that Mr Turner had access to pen and paper in order to prepare submissions in other matters before the Tribunal. That assertion is clearly correct, at least until the end of May 2012 and in August 2012 when he was apparently preparing the 588 page submission. Any denial of access to paper is not a reasonable excuse for the delay from June to August 2012. 
Mr Turner's evidence about access to the library is vague. In response to this submission the Commissioner referred to the Corrective Services Operations and Procedures Manual which states at section 5.6.2, paragraph 4 that:
Mr Turner referred to this and other policies about access to library facilities. While I am satisfied that Mr Turner did not have unlimited access to the library, it is not possible to determine the periods in which access was not available. 
I am satisfied that lack of access to the library was a reasonable excuse for some unknown but relatively short periods, between June and August. 
Mr Turner says that he has filed a further application in the Tribunal seeking CCTV security video held by Corrective Services to substantiate his allegations that he was physically assaulted and his life was threatened. He wished to have the present proceedings adjourned so that the Tribunal could require Corrective Services to provide copies of all relevant information relating to the alleged assaults and intimidation.
I refused the application for an adjournment because despite being asked several times, Mr Turner was unable to indicate a date or even a period of time during which these assaults were alleged to have occurred. I reminded him that it was only relevant to these proceedings if they had occurred, or if the effects were ongoing, between April and November 2012. Mr Turner responded by saying that he did not have a copy of his journal with him so he could not verify the dates. While I accept that Mr Turner is disadvantaged by not having his papers with him, he would be able to recall roughly when this assault was alleged to have occurred. Furthermore, he had an opportunity to check his journal prior to the hearing. 
In his subsequent written submissions Mr Turner makes various allegations against prison officers in relation to events around February 2010. In the absence of any specific allegation within the relevant period, I am not satisfied that Mr Turner was assaulted or intimidated during the relevant period or that, even if he was, that that affected his ability to lodge an application within time. Consequently any alleged assaults or intimidating behaviour provides no justification for the late application.
Throughout his written and oral submissions Mr Turner gives an extensive history of his treatment prior to the decision of the Commissioner on 17 April 2012 and propounds the merits of his application for review. Neither of those matters is relevant to the question of whether he had a reasonable excuse for the delay in filing the application and the fee or fee waiver application. 
Mr Turner had 40 working days to lodge his appeal after 17 April 2012. It was due on 15 June. He did not lodge it for 4  months after that time on 14 November 2012. He has a reasonable excuse for the delay up until the end of May because he was preparing lengthy submissions in other proceedings. He also has a reasonable excuse for the delay after 1 September 2012 because that is that date on which he attempted to file an application even though he did not complete the application form or pay the required fee. That leaves a period of three months from June to August 2012. Mr Turner submits that lack of access to his files, to paper and to the library during this period prevented him from making an application. While those matters provided a reasonable excuse for some unknown but relatively short periods of time, they do not provide a reasonable excuse for the entire three month period. 
############# I'm default separator ##########6
PROCEDURE - transitional matters - existing unexercised application right -alternative basis for application - whether Appeal Panelhas jurisdiction -whether an internally appealable decision STAY APPLICATION -effectiveness of appeal - no delay in appealing WORDS & PHRASES -"internally appealable decision" - Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013(NSW), s 32 - "existing unexercisedapplication or appeal right" - Civil andAdministrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW), Sch 1, cl 9
The appellants, tenants of a residential property in the Sydney suburb of Pymble (the Property), are seeking to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT) whereby orders were made on 29 January 2014 that: (1) the residential tenancy agreement in respect of the Property was terminated immediately; 
The Tribunal's reasons for decision are dated 4 February 2014. The tenants received notice of the decision and reasons on 6 February 2014. A notice of appeal under s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act) was lodged on 19 February 2014. Included in that notice of appeal was an application for a stay of the orders. 
By operation of s 7 of the Act, NCAT came into existence on 1 January 2014. On that same day: (1) under cl 3 of Schedule 1 of the Act, the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (CTTT) was abolished; and
As is usual and necessary, transitional provisions dealing with proceedings concerning abolished tribunals, including the CTTT, were included in Division 3 of Schedule 1 of the Act (cll 6 to 14). The principal issue that arises in these proceedings concerns the effect and operation of those transitional provisions in the circumstances of this matter. 
If the landlords had commenced proceedings before 1 January 2014, they would have been required to do so in the CTTT as that was the tribunal upon which jurisdiction was conferred by the RT Act in its pre-1 January 2014 form. The application was not, however, lodged until 9 January 2014. By this time the CTTT had been abolished and the RT Act had been amended to refer to NCAT in place of the CTTT. Accordingly, the landlords commenced in the Consumer and Commercial Division of NCAT. 
Although the proceedings were properly commenced in NCAT, the Appeal Panel was concerned as to the operation, if any, of the transitional provisions in Division 3 of Schedule 1, and especially cl 9, in relation to these proceedings and any appeal from a decision in the proceedings. 
The concern arose in this way. From a review of the reasons for decision it appeared that all of the relevant facts and circumstances giving rise to the landlords' application (and the tenants' defence) occurred on or before 31 December 2013. If, as a consequence, the landlords had a right available to be exercised on 31 December 2013 but not then exercised to apply to the CTTT for it to make a decision at first instance concerning the matter, the application could be characterised as an application based upon an "existing unexercised application ... right" within the meaning of cl 9(1) of Schedule 1 to the Act. If so, the Appeal Panel was concerned that the application was one which the Consumer and Commercial Division of NCAT heard and determined under cl 9(2) and: (1) under cl 9(3)(b) of Schedule 1 of the Act, "the provisions of any Act, statutory rule or other law ... that would have applied to or in respect of the application ... had [the NCAT legislation] not been enacted continue to apply"; and
If this were correct, it could be argued that the Appeal Panel of NCAT did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the tenants' appeal under s 80 of the Act or the stay application under s 43(3). Rather, the tenants' appeal rights would be those available under s 67 of the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (NSW) (as it applied prior to 1 January 2014) which established an appeal to the District Court in certain circumstances. 
An alternative was that cl 9 of Schedule 1 to the Act, on its proper construction, merely provided an option for an applicant. If the applicant was entitled to make the application under enabling legislation that conferred jurisdiction upon NCAT independently of cl 9, the applicant was free to choose between commencing proceedings either under that enabling legislation or under cl 9. 
In the present case, the relevant enabling legislation was the RT Act as it applied at 9 January 2014 when the proceedings were commenced, and in particular ss 84 and 187. If the application was made under those sections of the RT Act (in its post-1 January 2014 form) which enabled NCAT to make the decision, the decision under appeal would have been a "general decision" within the meaning of s 29 and thus an "internally appealable decision" within the meaning of ss 32 and 80 of the Act. Thus, the Appeal Panel would have jurisdiction to deal with the appeal. 
Because of these concerns and the urgency of the stay application which would have to be determined prior to 1 March 2014, the Appeal Panel convened a telephone directions hearing on 26 February 2014. At that directions hearing, Mr Priestly of counsel appeared for the tenants and Ms Hill a real estate agent for the landlords, by leave. The Appeal Panel raised its concerns set out above with the parties. During that hearing, the landlords' representative made it clear that they would not, as was their right, consent to any stay. As there was a question as to whether the Appeal Panel had jurisdiction to grant a stay or deal with the appeal at all, a direction was made that the matter should be listed for hearing of the stay application (including the issue of whether NCAT has jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal and grant a stay) at 2pm on Friday 28 February 2014. 
At the hearing on 28 February 2014, Mr B Lloyd of counsel appeared for the tenants, appellants. Ms Hill appeared for the landlords, respondents. Given the issues of statutory construction involved in determining the effect of the transitional provisions in Schedule 1 to the Act and of the appeal and jurisdiction provisions of the Act, the Appeal Panel considered that it would benefit from the participation of the tenants' legal representative. The Panel was also of the view that this would not cause any substantial prejudice to the landlords, having chosen not to be legally represented. Accordingly leave was granted to the parties to be represented by their respective representatives. 
At the end of that hearing the Panel indicated that it would give its decision at that time and provide the reasons for decision later. The orders made at that time were:  (1) The parties have leave to be represented at this hearing and at the final hearing of this appeal by their respective representatives. 
The Appeal Panel also gave directions for the preparation of the appeal for an expedited hearing. 
The Appeal Panel's reasons for its decision on the stay application, including the issue of whether it has jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal, are set out below. 
It is well established that a tribunal may decide the question of whether or not it has jurisdiction to hear and determine a matter. For example, the Court of Appeal has held in Bailey v Owners Corporation of Strata Plan 62666 [2011] NSWCA 293 at  [55]:
Whilst the admonition in the last sentence of the quotation should be heeded, in the present case the Appeal Panel believed that the interests of the parties and the administration of justice were better served by determining the question of jurisdiction as a preliminary question rather than leaving it unresolved until the final hearing. In the present matter, the question of jurisdiction relates to an appeal not a hearing at first instance and the existence of jurisdiction does not depend on facts which are the subject of contested evidence. 
The issues to be determined in relation to the operation of the transitional provisions in the present matter are: (1) Did the landlords have "an unexercised right to apply to an existing tribunal for it to make a decision at first instance concerning a matter" within the meaning of cl 9(1)(a) of Schedule 1?
Division 3 of Schedule 1 to the Act (cll 6 to 14) contains the transitional provisions that apply in respect of NCAT and the tribunals which were abolished on NCAT's establishment. The transitional provisions are structured as follows: (1) Subdivision 1 - Interpretation: Cl 6 - definitions of "part heard proceedings", "pending proceedings", "unexercised rights" and "unheard proceedings";
In general terms these transitional provisions establish mechanisms which allow proceedings or orders to be heard, finalised, appealed or otherwise dealt with in circumstances where this could not otherwise occur because of the abolition of the various previously existing tribunals. Given their nature, transitional provisions also usually provide the only means of having the proceedings to which they apply heard, finalised, appealed or otherwise dealt with. Whether this latter comment applies to cl 9 is at the heart of the issues raised in this matter. 
The specific clauses of the transitional provisions that may be relevant to these proceedings are set out below. 
An unexercised right is defined in cl 6(1) in the following terms:
Proceedings based upon an "unexercised application ... right" which could have been dealt with at first instances in an abolished tribunal are covered in cl 9 in the following terms:
Clause 13 establishes the Divisions of NCAT in which proceedings based upon an unexercised application right should be determined and how NCAT should be constituted for such proceedings. That clause provides as follows:
The first issue to be determined is whether the landlords' right upon which the proceedings at first instance were based was "an unexercised right to apply to an existing tribunal". 
The findings made in the reasons for decision of the Tribunal at first instance establish the following matters. The residential tenancy agreement in respect of the Property was constituted by a number of fixed term agreements. Subject to the tenants' claim that there was a further fixed term agreement, the latest fixed term agreement expired on 30 December 2013. The landlords served on the tenants a Notice of Termination dated 28 October 2013 under s 84 of the RT Act (in its pre-January 2014 form). The notice required vacant possession to be given on 30 December 2013. The tenants received a copy of this notice at some time before 30 October 2013. All of these facts and circumstances relied upon by the landlords to establish their claims for termination and possession of the Property arose prior to 1 January 2014. 
It also appears from the reasons for decision that the tenants' defence rested upon the alleged existence of a further fixed term agreement for the period after the expiration of the residential tenancy agreement on 30 December 2013. It was the tenants' case that such a further agreement had been the subject of negotiation in mid 2013 and a proposed residential tenancy agreement for a fixed term from 31 December 2013 to 1 July 2014 was sent by the landlords' agent to the tenants on 1 October 2013. The proposed agreement had not been signed or sent back to the landlords' agent prior to service of the Notice of Termination. The solicitors for the tenants wrote to the landlords' agent on 30 October 2013 stating that the Termination Notice was invalid as the tenants had been granted a new lease of the Property for the period 31 December 2013 to 1 July 2014. A signed copy of the proposed residential tenancy agreement for that period was not provided by the tenants to the landlords at that time. 
On 21 November 2013, the landlords lodged an application with the CTTT to have the issue of the termination of the tenancy determined, but they withdrew it on 9 December 2013. On that date, the tenants' solicitor handed to the landlords' agent a copy, signed by the tenants, of the proposed residential tenancy agreement which had been sent to them on 1 October 2013. The tenants paid the sum of $4,779.76 by direct deposit into the account of the landlords' agent on 31 December 2013. This amount was the monthly rent payable under the proposed residential tenancy agreement. The tenants case was also that this amount was accepted "without reservation" within the meaning of s 17 of the RT Act, which provides:
Thus, in so far as it is relevant, all of the circumstances relied upon by the tenants in their defence also occurred prior to 1 January 2014. 
In order to fall within the definition of "unexercised right" in cl 6(1), the tenants must have had a right available to be exercised immediately before 1 January 2014 which had not been exercised before that date. As at 31 December 2013, the landlords did have a right, available to be exercised immediately but not yet exercised, to apply to the CTTT for orders terminating the tenancy and for possession of the Property. Indeed, this was the right they had exercised when making their application on 21 November 2013 which was subsequently withdrawn, apparently without prejudice to their entitlement to exercise it again. 
The CTTT is defined as an "existing tribunal" in cl 2(1), subpara (d), of Schedule 1 to the Act. 
As to the first issue, it should be concluded that the landlords had at the time they made their application on 9 January 2014 "an unexercised right to apply to an existing tribunal for it to make a decision at first instance concerning a matter" within the meaning of cl 9(1)(a). 
Clause 9(2) and (3) provide:
If the ordinary meaning of the words in cl 9 is adopted, the use of the word "may" and not "must" indicates that cl 9(2) confers on a person who has an existing unexercised application right the ability or power to apply to NCAT for the exercise of the functions that could have been exercised by the existing tribunal had it not been abolished. 
Furthermore, cl 9(3)(a) confers jurisdiction on NCAT to exercise all the functions that the relevant "existing" but abolished tribunal would have had in relation to any application made under cl 9(2). Finally, cl 9(3)(b) establishes that the pre-NCAT legislative regime is to apply in respect of such an application. 
Accordingly, an applicant who has an unexercised application right has the ability to apply to NCAT to have the application determined as if the NCAT legislative regime had not been otherwise been enacted. It also follows that if there is no other legislative provision which enables NCAT to make the decision sought by the applicant, the applicant is required to proceed under cl 9(2) if any relief is to be obtained. In this limited sense and in those circumstances, cl 9(2) could be said to be mandatory. 
Clause 9 does not refer to what should occur where an applicant has an alternative right to apply for relief arising out of the same facts and circumstances as give rise to the "unexercised application ... right". Clause 9 certainly does not expressly purport to prohibit an applicant from exercising such an alternative right. Nor does there appear to be any reason arising out of the wording, scope or purpose of the transitional provisions in Division 3 of Schedule 1 to the Act, or of the Act itself, to give cl 9 such an interpretation. 
Indeed, as part of the legislative regime under which NCAT was established, from the establishment date of NCAT, 1 January 2014, the Civil and Administrative Legislation (Repeal and Amendment) Act 2013 amended a large number of statutes which previously conferred jurisdiction on the abolished tribunals so as to confer jurisdiction on NCAT to hear and determine relevant matters in place of the abolished tribunals. 
One of those statutes so amended from 1 January 2014 was the RT Act and the most relevant amendment was to change the definition of "Tribunal" in that Act from the CTTT to NCAT - see cl 4.34 item [2] in Schedule 4 to the Civil and Administrative Legislation (Repeal and Amendment) Act. Nothing in those amendments indicated that NCAT's jurisdiction was limited to applications based on rights that accrued only after 1 January 2014. 
As a result of the amendments, from 1 January 2014 s 84(3) of the RT Act provided that:
Similarly, from 1 January 2014, s 187 of the RT Act conferred on NCAT the jurisdiction, on application by a landlord or tenant among others, to make certain orders, including a termination order and an order for the possession of premises (under s 187(1)(i)). 
In the present case, after 1 January 2014, the landlords appear to have had alternative rights. They could make an application to NCAT: (1) under ss 84 and 187 of the RT Act for NCAT to make a termination order and an order for possession; or
In the case of an application under ss 84 and 187 of the RT Act (in its post-1 January 2014 form), the applicable legislation and rules would be that Act, the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act and the applicable NCAT procedural rules. For an application under cl 9, cl 9(3)(b) specified that the Acts, statutory rules and other law that would have applied if the Act, the Civil and Administrative Legislation (Repeal and Amendment) Act and any regulation or rules made under them had not been enacted would continue to apply. 
There is nothing in the record of the proceedings at first instance to suggest that the landlords sought to invoke NCAT's jurisdiction under cl 9 of Schedule 1. Rather, their application was simply made under ss 84 and 187 of the RT Act (in its post-1 January 2014 form). If the ordinary meaning of the words in cl 9 is adopted, there does not appear to be any reason to require the landlords to apply under cl 9(2) of Schedule 1 to the Act and not under ss 84 and 187 of the RT Act. Furthermore, there is no justification in the wording, scope or purpose of the Act or the Civil and Administrative Legislation (Repeal and Amendment) Act 2013 for reaching a different conclusion. 
For these reasons the Appeal Panel concludes that the landlords were not required to apply under cl 9(2) in order to exercise their "unexercised application ... right". They had the option of proceeding under ss 84 and 187 of the RT Act (in its post-1 January 2014 form) instead. 
The final issue is whether the decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division in the present case was an "internally appealable decision" so that NCAT has jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal. None of the other transitional provisions would appear to give NCAT jurisdiction to determine the appeal if the decision is not an "internally appealable decision". 
NCAT's internal appeals jurisdiction is established by s 32 of the Act and the right of a party to appeal against an "internally appealable decision" is conferred by s 80. Section 80(1) states:
An "internally appealable decision" is defined in s 32(4) as "a decision of [NCAT] or a registrar over which [NCAT] has internal appeal jurisdiction". 
Section 32(1) provides:
Thus, in the present case where registrars' decisions and administrative review decisions (see s 30 of the Act) are not involved, an NCAT internally appealable decision will be limited to a decision made by NCAT in proceedings for a "general decision".  (1) 
Section 29(3) provides:
Section 29(1) provides:
The RT Act (in its post 1 January 2014 form) enables NCAT to make decisions and exercise other functions of the kinds specified in the RT Act. Claims for termination of a residential tenancy and an order for possession do not fall within the administrative review jurisdiction, appeal jurisdiction or enforcement jurisdiction of NCAT (see ss 30, 32 and 33 respectively). Accordingly, a decision made by the Consumer and Commercial Division under ss 84 and 187 of the RT Act (in its post 1 January 2014 form) will be a "general decision" within the meaning of the Act and the Appeal Panel will have jurisdiction to hear and determine an internal appeal from such a decision. 
If, however, the decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division had been made as a result of an application under cl 9(2) of Schedule 1 to the Act a different result follows. Clause 9 would at least be part of the legislation that relevantly "enables the Tribunal to make decisions or exercise other functions" in such a case but cl 9 is not "legislation (other than this Act or the procedural rules)", within the meaning of s 29(1)(a). Accordingly, it seems that proceedings based upon an application made under cl 9 at first instance will not be in NCAT's general jurisdiction and the decision in such proceedings will not be a "general decision". In those circumstances, it will not be a decision over which NCAT has internal appeal jurisdiction under s 32(1). 
It is this latter conclusion that was the foundation for the Appeal Panel's concern as to its jurisdiction. If the landlords in this matter had applied at first instance under cl 9(2) of Schedule 1 to the Act, the decision would not, it seems, have been appealable to the Appeal Panel. 
That is not to say, however, that there would be no appeal rights in that case. For the purposes of proceedings under cl 9(2), cl 9(3)(b) provides that "the provisions of any Act, statutory rule or other law ... that would have applied to or in respect of the application had [the Act] and the relevant amending Acts not been enacted continue to apply". Thus, the appeal rights in such a case would seem to be those available under the CTTT Act, as if it had not been repealed by the Civil and Administrative Legislation (Repeal and Amendment) Act. Section 67 of the CTTT Act provided for an appeal in limited circumstances to the District Court. 
For these reasons the Appeal Panel concludes that the decision made by the Consumer and Commercial Division in this matter, since it was based on ss 84 and 187 of the RT Act (in its post-1 January 2014 form), was an "internally appealable decision" within the meaning of ss 80, 32 of the Act. As a consequence, the Appeal Panel has jurisdiction to hear and determine this appeal. 
It should be noted, however, that if the application by the landlords had been made under cl 9(2) of Schedule 1, the decision by the Consumer and Commercial Division would not have been an "internally appealable decision" and the Appeal Panel would not have had jurisdiction to deal with the appeal. 
Under s 43(2) of the Act, where an internal appeal is involved the pendency of an appeal does not affect the operation of the decision to which the appeal relates unless the Tribunal makes an order staying or otherwise affecting the operation of the decision. The Tribunal may under s 43(3) make such orders staying or otherwise affecting the operation of a decision to which a pending appeal relates as it considers appropriate to secure the effectiveness of the determination of the appeal. 
In the present matter, the Consumer and Commercial Division had ordered that the residential tenancy agreement in respect of the Property be terminated immediately and that possession be given on the date of termination. The order for possession was suspended until 1 March 2014. 
The tenants had not delayed in lodging their appeal. The grounds of appeal were in effect that there was a valid residential tenancy agreement for the period from 31 December 2013 to 1 July 2014 because: (1) agreement on a new fixed term tenancy agreement had been reached before the Notice of Termination was served;
Given the nature of the subject matter of the proceedings, the Panel also accepted that if the stay were not granted, the tenants would be required to give possession to the landlords on 1 March 2014. As a result, the subject matter of the appeal, namely the tenants' right to remain in occupation, would be effectively lost. 
Finally, the Panel also took into account the fact, quite properly acknowledged by Ms Hill, that the landlords would not suffer any significant prejudice if the appeal were heard on an expedited basis within two weeks. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel granted a stay of the orders made on 29 January 2014 in this matter, except Order 4, until further order. 
############# I'm default separator ##########7
REAL ESTATE AGENTS - fit and proper person test - whether failure to takeinto account a relevant consideration - discretion as todisciplinary actionPROCEDURE - transitional matters - law governing the appealWORDS & PHRASES - "fit and proper" - Property, Stock and BusinessAgent Act 2002 (NSW), s 14
The appellant, the Director General of the Department of Finance and Services, appealed from a decision of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT) in Porter v Director-General, Department of Finance and Services  [2013] NSWADT 211 setting aside the appellant's decision to: (1) Cancel the real estate agent's licence of the respondent, Mrs Porter; 
In summary, the Appeal Panel has decided that the appeal should be allowed on a limited basis, the ADT's decision should be set aside and the matter should be remitted for determination of the appropriate order in the light of this decision. Our reasons are set out below. 
The notice of appeal in this matter was filed in the ADT on 24 October 2013. 
On 1 January 2014, the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales (NCAT) was established and on its establishment the ADT was abolished: see Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act), s 7 and cl 3 of Schedule 1.
By operation of cl 7(1) of Schedule 1 to the Act, this appeal is taken to have been duly commenced in NCAT and may be heard and determined by NCAT. For this purpose and under cl 7(3), NCAT has and may exercise all the functions which the ADT previously had and the applicable legislation is that which would have applied if the NCAT legislation had not been enacted. Consequently, the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (ADT Act) as in force at 31 December 2013 applies to this appeal. In particular, Part 1 of Ch 7 of the ADT Act which deals with internal appeals to the Appeal Panel of the ADT applies to this appeal even though it is being heard by the Appeal Panel of NCAT. 
As a result, in this matter the appellant has a right to appeal on a question of law, under s 113(2)(a) of the ADT Act. It can be noted that the appellant has not made any application under s 113(2)(b) for leave to extend this appeal to a review of the merits of the ADT's decision. 
In January 2005 the respondent first obtained a real estate agent's license and then in December 2007 became a director of the family held company, PMD Central Coast Pty Ltd (PMD). In November 2009 a manager was appointed to PMD and later at some point in 2010 the respondent withdrew from all involvement with PMD. 
On 23 August 2012 the appellant decided, under s 192 of the Property, Stock and Business Agents Act 2002 (NSW) (the PSBA Act), to: (1) Cancel the real estate licence of Mrs Porter, the respondent, on the basis that she was not a fit and proper person to hold such a licence;
The respondent applied to the ADT to have this decision set aside. 
In its decision the Tribunal concluded that:  (1) The respondent resigned as a director of PMD on 14 January 2010 shortly after discovering her brother's mismanagement of the company finances and therefore was not a disqualified person under the PSBA Act, s 16 (1A)(d);
As to the correct and preferable decision the Tribunal held: (1) Having considered the principles relating to fitness and propriety, the respondent should not have her license cancelled on the basis that she was not a fit and proper person to hold a license; 
The appellant, for whom Mr Nicoletti, solicitor, appeared, relied upon 3 grounds of appeal, formulated as follows:
It is appropriate to address each ground in turn. 
One issue which the Tribunal was required to consider was whether disciplinary action by way of cancelling the respondent's real estate licence under s 192(g) of the PSBA should be taken against the respondent. This involved consideration of whether the respondent was "not a fit and proper person" within s 191(e) of the Act. 
The effect of the appellant's relevant contentions at first instance (see [14] and [15]) was that cancellation of the licence was justified because: (1) the respondent was a "disqualified person" under s 16(1A)(d) of the PSBA Act;
As noted above, the Tribunal held that the respondent was not a "disqualified person" under s 16(1A)(d) of the PSBA Act (see [41]) and had not breached s 137 of the PSBA Act in seeking to acquire and transfer the rent roll of PMD Coastwide Real Estate (see [62]). Neither of these conclusions was challenged on appeal. 
As to the remaining contentions, the Tribunal concluded that the respondent had breached s 86 and cl 21 as well as s 43. Indeed, these breaches had been conceded by the respondent. In each case, however, the Tribunal found that the breach had not been intentional - see [48] and [54]. In addition, in relation to the breaches of s 86 and cl 21 the Tribunal expressly held that they "did not involve any dishonesty" (see [48]). 
It should be noted here that, although the appellant was not successful in establishing all of the contentions relied upon, the Tribunal understood that the appellant's case was still that the contraventions found were sufficient to establish that the respondent was not a fit and proper person to hold a licence. At [68], the Tribunal said:
The Tribunal's consideration of the "fit and proper person" issue was primarily found in [63] to [75] of its reasons for decision. 
Before the Appeal Panel, the appellant submitted that although the Tribunal had identified the correct legal test for determining fitness and propriety in the present matter (see [63] to [67]), it had failed to apply that test and so fell into legal error. 
Put simply, the appellant's submission was that in determining fitness and propriety, the Tribunal was bound to consider at least 3 things, honesty, knowledge and ability - see Hughes and Vale Pty Ltd v New South Wales No 2 [1955] HCA 28;  (1955) 93 CLR 127 at 156, to which the Tribunal referred at [63]. The Tribunal's error was that, whilst it had considered honesty, it had failed to consider, at all or adequately, the respondent's knowledge and ability. 
In oral argument, the appellant also submitted that, even if it had taken into account all relevant considerations, the Tribunal, having found that the contraventions did not involve dishonesty or intentional breaches, had failed to give adequate reasons for its conclusion at [75] that it was not satisfied that the respondent's licence should be cancelled on the basis that she was not a fit and proper person to hold a licence. 
The respondent submitted that the matter at first instance was conducted on the basis that the four matters identified in [14] of the Tribunal's decision, taken together, were what led to the conclusion that the respondent was not fit and proper. These four matters focused upon the probity of the respondent not her competence. It was also submitted that there had been no allegation that the respondent lacked the knowledge or ability to hold a real estate agent's licence. 
The respondent also submitted that it was not argued below that if it was found that the respondent had inadvertently breached the PSBA Act, she lacked the ability to discharge her functions as real estate agent. Had such a case been put, she would have been entitled to call evidence to demonstrate that she possessed the relevant knowledge and skill. 
The respondent also observed that it was far from clear that the respondent's knowledge and skill had not been adequately considered by the Tribunal. 
Failure to take into account a relevant consideration which the decision maker was bound to take into account is an error of law (Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend Ltd [1986] HCA 40;  (1985-6) 162 CLR 24 at 39 per Mason J). 
Determining what is to be taken into account when making a decision is a matter of construction of the statute conferring power. Where the relevant matters are not expressly set out those matters are determined by implication from the subject matter, scope and purpose of the conferring statute: see Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend Ltd at 39-40 per Mason J. What weight the Tribunal should give to those considerations is, however, generally a matter for the Tribunal (at 41 per Mason J). 
Whilst the question of weight is one for the Tribunal, the Tribunal will not have given adequate attention to a relevant consideration where its process is merely a formulaic reference: see Azriel v NSW Land & Housing Corporation  [2006] NSWCA 372 at  [49] per Basten JA (with Santow and Ipp JJA agreeing). Instead what is required can be described as a proper, genuine and realistic consideration of the relevant consideration: Bruce v Cole  (1998) 45 NSWLR 163 at 185-6 per Spigelman CJ. However, as Basten JA warned in Azriel at [51] referring to Spigelman CJ in Bruce at 186, assessing whether the decision-maker has given a proper, genuine and realistic consideration to a mandatory matter must be approached with caution, with care to avoid an impermissible reconsideration of the merits of the decision. 
In assessing a purported failure to take into account a relevant consideration a mere failure to refer expressly to a matter will not necessarily justify an inference that there has been a failure to take into account a relevant consideration. Despite this, such an inference is still open to be drawn by the Tribunal in those circumstances: see Australian Conservation Foundation v Forestry Commission  (1988) 19 FCR 127 at 132 per Burchett J. In determining whether or not to draw the inference that failure to deal at all or in detail with a relevant consideration gives rise to an error by the decision-maker, the extent to which the facts and circumstances of the particular matter engage that consideration will be relevant and often determinative. Further, in the context of an appeal from a decision of an administrative review tribunal, such as this appeal, the nature and scope of the submissions put to the tribunal at first instance may also inform that process of determination. 
In the light of the High Court's comments in Hughes and Vale Pty Ltd v New South Wales No 2 [1955] HCA 28;  (1955) 93 CLR 127 at 156 it can be accepted in determining this appeal that honesty, knowledge and ability are each considerations which the relevant decision maker was bound to take into account in reaching a conclusion as to whether the respondent was a fit and proper person in the context of the PSBA Act. 
As to the duty of the Tribunal to give reasons and the adequacy of those reasons, s 89 of the ADT Act provided:
Notwithstanding the words in the chapeau to subs (5), there is no reason as a matter of principle why the requirements set out in that subsection do not apply equally to reasons for decision which were not given as a result of a request under subs (3). Further, given the right of appeal from a decision of the ADT to the Appeal Panel under s 113 of the ADT Act and from the Appeal Panel to the Supreme Court on a question of law under s 119 of that Act, the Tribunal's obligation to give reasons should be commensurate with that of courts whose decisions are subject to appeal to the Supreme Court - see generally the discussion of principles in Campbelltown City Council v Vegan [2006] NSWCA 284;  (2006) 67 NSWLR 372. As this matter was not the subject of any substantial submissions by the parties, however, it is inappropriate to deal with the topic in more detail and it can be accepted for the purposes of this appeal that the Tribunal was obliged to give proper reasons for its decision. Such reasons would include making findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence on which those findings were based, setting out the Tribunal's understanding of the applicable law and explaining the reasoning processes that lead the Tribunal to the conclusions it made. In assessing such reasons, however, it is appropriate to bear in mind the High Court's endorsement of the view that in the case of administrative decision makers this assessment is not best approached with an "eye keenly attuned to the perception of error": see Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v Wu Shan Liang [1996] HCA 6;  (1996) 185 CLR 259 at 272. 
When reaching its conclusion on fitness and propriety, the Tribunal addressed in turn each of the breaches and the other relevant conduct it had found in its reasons. Thus, it is appropriate for the Appeal Panel also to consider the Tribunal's reasons in respect of each of the types of breaches in turn. 
At [69] to [71], the Tribunal considered the breaches of s 86 of the PSBA Act and cl 21 of the Regulation. Those legislative provisions required moneys received for or on behalf of any person by a licensee in connection with the licensee's business to be paid into and retained in a trust account within certain limited times. At [69] the Tribunal referred back to its earlier findings and reasoning concerning the breaches of s 86 and cl 21. At [44], the Tribunal had noted the respondent's concession that tenants had deposited rental payments into the general or operating account rather than the trust account of the respondent's business. At [47] the Tribunal concluded that this was in breach of s 86 and cl 21. It was also accepted at [47], however, that this occurred because of an administrative error in that the letter sent to tenants advising them how to deposit their rental payments provided the account number for the operating account rather than for the trust account. Those numbers apparently differed only as to the last two digits (see [45]). The Tribunal also noted at [47] that once the error was discovered the moneys were transferred from the general account to the trust account but the problem was not fully resolved for 2 months. Finally, the Tribunal found at [48] that the error was corrected without any disadvantage to either the relevant landlords or tenants and did not involve any dishonesty. 
The Tribunal then held at [69] "this was not an act of dishonesty by Mrs Porter but rather an administrative error resulting in tenants wrongly depositing rent payments into the Coastwide operating account rather than the relevant trust account." Further at [70] and [71], it was said:
It is true that the Tribunal did not use the words "knowledge" or "ability" when reaching its conclusions on fitness and propriety in this regard. It does not follow from this, however, that these matters were not relevantly considered. 
As to knowledge, nothing in the circumstances in which the breaches of s 86 and cl 21 occurred suggested that there was any lack of relevant knowledge on the part of the respondent that would have rendered her not a fit and proper person. The Tribunal's finding was that the breaches were the result of administrative error not of defective knowledge on the part of the respondent. In addition, the case that was put against the respondent does not appear to have been that she breached s 86 and cl 21 because she did not know what was required of her under the PSBA Act and the Regulation. Accordingly, in these circumstances, there was no requirement for the Tribunal to address the consideration of knowledge expressly or specifically in reaching its conclusion as to fitness and propriety. Implicitly, the Tribunal proceeded on the basis that any lack of fitness or propriety was not based on lack of knowledge in this case. Such an approach should not be criticised in the circumstances. 
As to ability, as has been noted above, the Tribunal did turn its mind to the fact that the breaches did "not reflect well on the [respondent's] administrative skills" ([47]) and reflected "poorly on Mrs Porter's organisational and accounting skills" ([48]). The fact that the respondent's error did not reflect well on her account keeping skills and the length of time taken to resolved the problem were again considered specifically in [70] and [71] (which have been quoted above). Nonetheless, the Tribunal concluded that the error made in relation to the bank account numbers would not warrant cancellation of the respondent's licence on the ground that she was not a fit and proper person. 
The Appeal Panel is satisfied that by referring to these administrative, organisational and accounting skills in this way the Tribunal gave genuine, proper and realistic consideration to the respondent's ability as it was relevant to fitness and propriety in the context of the PSBA Act and as it was relevant to the breaches found by the Tribunal. 
The breach of s 43 of the PSBA Act was dealt with by the Tribunal at [49] to [54] and again, in relation to consideration of the respondent's fitness and propriety at [72] and [73]. 
Section 43 provided:
At [50], the Tribunal noted that the respondent did not dispute that in 2012 she had employed her mother in her real estate business and that at this time her mother was a disqualified person and, at [53], concluded that this was a breach of s 43. 
The Tribunal referred at [51] and [52] to the evidence given by the respondent and a Mr Rick Porter (no relation of the respondent) concerning how the breach occurred. At [53], the Tribunal says that it accepted the respondent's evidence that she was aware that she was not permitted to employ her mother as a real estate agent but believed she was allowed to employ her in an administrative capacity. It was also satisfied that the respondent, in reaching this belief, was influenced by the fact that Mr Porter, who had been appointed by the appellant to manage the business on 11 November 2009 under s 126(1)(b) of the PSBA Act, had employed the respondent's mother as a bookkeeper, apparently with the approval of the appellant, despite the fact that she was a disqualified person at that time as well. Although the Tribunal found that s 43 had been breached, it concluded that the respondent's actions were not an intentional breach (at [54]). 
When considering the respondent's fitness and propriety in the light of the breach of s 43 at [72] and [73], the Tribunal repeated its earlier findings and noted that once the respondent was advised that she was not allowed to employ a disqualified person such as her mother she no longer did so (at [72]). 
The Tribunal then, at [73], noted that the contravention of s 43 was inadvertent and concluded:
The Tribunal's findings in relation to the s 43 breach mean that the respondent's honesty was not in question nor did the circumstances raise any question of lack of ability. Thus, although honesty and ability were required to be taken into account in a general sense in assessing fitness and propriety, in the specific circumstances of this breach, they had no substantive role to play in the making of that assessment. Thus, it should not be found that there was any failure to take into account any relevant considerations in this regard. 
As to knowledge, it was implicit in the Tribunal's findings that the respondent's knowledge of the law was not totally lacking in that she knew that she could not employ a disqualified person as a real estate agent. Furthermore, she was influenced in believing that she could employ her mother in an administrative capacity by the fact that her mother had been employed in such a role by a manager appointed to the business by the appellant. The Tribunal had regard to these matters and concluded in [73] that the s 43 breach did not "sufficiently impact upon her fitness and propriety to hold a real estate licence as to warrant ... cancellation ... or ... disqualification". Taking the Tribunal's reasons in this regard as a whole, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the Tribunal gave genuine, proper and realistic consideration as to how the breach of s 43 reflected upon the respondent's knowledge as relevant to her fitness and propriety. Thus, there was no failure to take into account this consideration. Further, the Panel is of the view that the Tribunal's reasons disclose that it sufficiently considered the evidence, made findings of fact, expounded its understanding of the law and exposed its reasoning process in this regard. 
The respondent's actions in attempting to acquire the rent roll of the business in respect of which Mr Porter had been appointed manager under s 126 (which was referred to by the Tribunal as the Entrance Rent Roll) were dealt with by the Tribunal at [55] to [62] and again, in relation to consideration of the respondent's fitness and propriety at [74]. 
In this regard, it had been contended by the appellant that the respondent had breached s 137 of the PSBA Act by her conduct in attempting to acquire the Entrance Rent Roll. Section 137 provided:
This contention was not accepted by the Tribunal. The Tribunal's consideration of the evidence and findings are found at [56] to [61] and again at [74]. In summary, the respondent admitted that she took steps to acquire the Entrance Rent Roll by asking tenants who had already signed management agreements with the business of which Mr Porter was the manager under the PSBA Act to sign such agreements with her or her company. The Tribunal accepted that the respondent had been initially encouraged by Mr Porter to acquire the Entrance Rent Roll in this way. Subsequently, on his appointment as receiver of the business of which he had been manager, Mr Porter told the respondent not to seek any further management agreements and to transfer into the business's trust account moneys received from tenants who had earlier signed management agreement with the respondent or her company. The respondent followed this instruction. She did not benefit from those actions in relation to the Entrance Rent Roll. The Tribunal did not accept that the conduct amounted to a breach of s 137. Further, at [75] the Tribunal concluded that the respondent had not by her actions in relation to the Entrance Rent Roll acted "in a way that has any bearing on her fitness and propriety to hold a real estate licence". 
Given the findings and reasoning of the Tribunal which preceded this last conclusion, the Appeal Panel is satisfied, once again, that implicit in that conclusion is a consideration of each of the elements of honesty, knowledge and ability to the extent that they were raised by the conduct in relation to the Entrance Rent Roll. In the circumstances as found by the Tribunal, there was no reason to question to any significant degree the respondent's honesty, knowledge or ability. Thus, it was appropriate and sufficient for the Tribunal to record its consideration of fitness and propriety in the context in the wrapped up form quoted in the preceding paragraph. 
At [75] the Tribunal stated its general conclusion based upon all of the conduct which it took into account in the following terms:
This conclusion further confirms that the Tribunal took into account not only the honesty of the respondent but also such aspects of her knowledge and ability as were raised by the administrative errors she made in the conduct of her business and by her other relevant activities. No other aspects of those three considerations were engaged by the facts and circumstances as found by the Tribunal. Accordingly, there was no requirement on the Tribunal that it should address in detail any other aspects of the respondent's honesty, knowledge or ability in its reasons. 
Furthermore, when read as a whole, the reasons did include making findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence on which those findings were based, setting out the Tribunal's understanding of the applicable law and explaining the reasoning processes that led the Tribunal to the conclusions it made
The Tribunal's consideration of the respondent's knowledge and ability as well as honesty was reflective of how the submissions were put to the Tribunal and, in our view, was adequate in the circumstances. On the bases set out above and taking the Tribunal's reasons for decision as a whole, the Appeal Panel concludes that the Tribunal did not fall into error by: (1) failing to consider adequately or at all whether the respondent possessed the requisite knowledge and ability to hold a real estate licence; or
As such, the first ground of appeal is rejected. 
At [78], the Tribunal made the finding that the respondent's "real estate licence was cancelled for the period 23 August 2013 to 6 September 2012 (when a stay of proceedings was granted by this Tribunal)". 
The appellant's second ground of appeal was that there was no evidence to support this finding that the licence had been cancelled for the period from 23 August 2012 to 6 September that same year and thus there was an error of law on the part of the Tribunal. 
Making a finding of fact for which there is no evidentiary support is an error of law: Kostas v HIA Insurance Services Pty Limited [2010] HCA 32;  (2010) 241 CLR 390 at  [90]. 
The respondent agreed in its written submissions that it was a mistake of fact to find that the respondent's licence had been cancelled for the period identified. During oral submissions, the respondent's counsel conceded that there was no evidence to support that finding and, that being the case, there was an error of law by the Tribunal in making the finding that it did. 
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel would allow the appeal on this second ground. 
The appellant's third ground of appeal was formulated as follows:
In oral submissions, the solicitor for the appellant clarified that this ground did not raise a separate error of law and was not in effect a separate ground of appeal. Rather it was an attempt to raise the issue of whether the Tribunal's conclusions that: (1) it should take no further action under s 193 of the PSBA Act; and 
Mr Nicoletti make submissions on the seriousness of the conduct involved in the various breaches found by the Tribunal and invited the Appeal Panel to set aside the Tribunal's decision and cancel the respondent's licence under s 192(1)(g), declare the respondent to be disqualified for a period under s 192(1)(h) and disqualify the respondent under s 192(1)(i). 
Mr Rogers submitted that the Appeal Panel should, even if it found the errors established, decide not to take any disciplinary action under s 193 of the PSBA Act. He also made the point that it would cause unnecessary cost to remit the matter to the Tribunal for further consideration. 
The Appeal Panel has concluded that there was no error of law in the way in which the Tribunal considered the respondent's fitness and propriety. Thus, no reconsideration of the Tribunal's orders is required on this ground. 
The Tribunal's reasons at [78] indicate that the erroneous finding that the respondent's licence had been cancelled for the period from 23 August to 6 September 2012 played a significant part in the Tribunal's concluding that no further action should be taken against the respondent, as was permitted under s 193. Thus and as a result of the Panel's conclusion that the Tribunal did err in law in finding that the respondent's licence had been cancelled in August and September 2012, the Tribunal's orders need to be reconsidered. 
Given that there was no application to extend the appeal to review the merits of the decision, the Appeal Panel is not in a position to determine and take into account the relevant factual matters that might be addressed in determining what is the correct and preferable decision in the circumstances. For these reasons, the Appeal Panel is of the view that the most appropriate course is for the matter to be remitted to the Administrative and Equal Opportunity Division of NCAT in accordance with cl 13(1)(b) and (2)(e) of Schedule 1 to the Act for determination of what disciplinary action, if any, should be taken against the respondent.
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel orders that: (1) the appeal be allowed in part;
############# I'm default separator ##########8
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - transitionalprovisions - whether appeal panel has jurisdiction WORDS & PHRASES -"part heard proceedings" - Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW),Schedule 1, Division 3, cl 6(1)WORDS & PHRASES - "internallyappealable decision" - Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW), ss 32and 80
The appellant, New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation, is seeking to appeal against a decision of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales (NCAT) dismissing an application under s 87(4) and 187(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) (the RT Act) for an order terminating a social housing tenancy agreement between the appellant and the respondent, Spiro Diab, and an order for possession of the premises. 
As the decision at first instance was made by NCAT under the transitional provisions in cl 7 of Schedule 1 to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act), the Appeal Panel raised with the parties concerns as to whether it had jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal, given the terms of cl 7(3) and the definition of "internally appealable decision" in the Act. Essentially the same issue arose in another matter, Owners Corporation SP 76269 v Draybi Bros Pty Ltd, and the Appeal Panel raised the same concerns with the parties to that matter. 
After receiving written submissions from the parties, the question of whether the Appeal Panel had jurisdiction was heard as a preliminary question on 24 March 2014 in both matters. At the end of that hearing, the Appeal Panel announced its conclusion that the Panel did have jurisdiction and indicated that it would publish its reasons for so concluding at a later time. The Panel also made directions on that occasion for the preparation of this appeal and set it down for hearing. 
These are the Appeal Panel's reasons for concluding that it has jurisdiction to hear and determine this appeal in NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Diab. Separate reasons for decision have been produced in relation to the matter of Owners Corporation SP 76269 v Draybi Bros Pty Ltd. 
The proceedings were commenced on 2 January 2013 in the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (CTTT). A hearing in the CTTT took place on 22 and 23 October 2013 and the parties' representatives made oral submissions in the matter on 12 December 2013 but the CTTT's decision was reserved and had not been delivered by 31 December 2013. On 1 January 2014, NCAT was established and on its establishment the CTTT was abolished: see s 7 of the Act and cl 3 of Schedule 1 to the Act.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of the Act, found largely in Division 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Act, cll 6 to 14, the Senior Member of the CTTT who had heard the matter prior to 1 January 2014 continued on to determine it sitting as NCAT. She dismissed the appellant's application. 
A copy of the reasons for decision dated 31 January 2014 was received by the appellant on 4 February 2014. The appellant lodged its Notice of Appeal under s 80 of the Act on 14 February 2014. 
When the appellant's Notice of Appeal was lodged, the Appeal Panel was concerned as to the operation, if any, of the transitional provisions in relation to the appellant's right of appeal from the decision in the proceedings. In particular, the concern was whether the transitional provisions required the appellant to appeal to the District Court rather than the Appeal Panel of NCAT. 
The concern arose in this way. The proceedings at first instance appeared to fall within the description of "part heard proceedings" in cl 7 of Schedule 1. In that case, they would be determined in accordance with cl 7(2) and under cl 7(3)(b), "the provisions of any Act, statutory rule or other law ... that would have applied to or in respect of the proceedings ... had [the NCAT legislation] not been enacted continue to apply". The question which concerned the Appeal Panel was whether the provisions of any Act, which would have applied in respect of the proceedings had the NCAT legislation not been enacted and which continued to apply by operation of cl 7(3)(b), included the appeal provisions found in s 67 of the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (NSW) (the CTTT Act). If this was so, it could be argued that the appeal in the present matter should be heard by the District Court and the Appeal Panel of NCAT would not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal. 
Further, the Appeal Panel was concerned that the definitions of "internally appealable decision" and "general decision" in the Act might have the consequence that the decision at first instance was not an "internally appealable decision" within the meaning of ss 80 and 32 of the Act. Consequently, on this basis as well, it could be argued that the Appeal Panel did not have jurisdiction. 
Because of these concerns, the Appeal Panel gave directions on 21 February 2014 as follows: 
The parties filed written submission in accordance with those directions and a hearing on the preliminary question of whether the Appeal Panel of NCAT has jurisdiction to hear and determine this appeal took place on 24 March 2014. 
It is well established that a tribunal may decide the question of whether or not it has jurisdiction to hear and determine a matter - Griffin v Ingram [2014] NSWCATAP 5, citing Bailey v Owners Corporation of Strata Plan 62666 [2011] NSWCA 293 at  [55]. 
Furthermore, even though it may be the case in many instances that it is more appropriate not to determine jurisdiction as a preliminary question, in the present case the Appeal Panel is of the view that the interests of the parties and the administration of justice are better served by determining the question of jurisdiction as a preliminary question rather than leaving it unresolved until the final hearing. This is an appeal and not a case where the existence of jurisdiction depends upon findings of fact which are the subject of contested evidence. Furthermore, if NCAT did not have jurisdiction, the parties might well have been required to lodge an appeal or take other action in the District Court or the Supreme Court, which might have been delayed if the question of jurisdiction was not determined as soon as possible. 
From the concerns identified above, it follows that there are two aspects to the preliminary question that need to be addressed: (1) whether the transitional provisions, and in particular cl 7(3)(b), require the appeal in this matter to be brought under "the provisions of any Act ... that would have applied ... in respect of the proceedings had [the NCAT legislation] not been enacted"; and
The first issue is whether the transitional provisions, and in particular cl 7(3)(b), require the appeal in this matter to be brought under "the provisions of any Act ... that would have applied ... in respect of the proceedings had [the NCAT legislation] not been enacted". This turns, in part, on whether the proceedings in which the decision appealed from was made were "part heard proceedings" within the meaning of cll 6 and 7 of the transitional provisions and in part upon the proper construction of cl 7(3). 
The transitional provisions which apply in respect of NCAT and the tribunals which were abolished on NCAT's establishment are largely set out in Division 3 (cll 6 to 14) of Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Act. They are structured as follows: (1) Subdivision 1 - Interpretation: Cl 6 - definitions of "part heard proceedings", "pending proceedings", "unexercised rights" and "unheard proceedings";
What can be observed from this summary of the structure of the provisions is that appeals from decisions made under the transitional provisions are not expressly dealt with. This might be taken as an indication, albeit somewhat equivocal, that once a decision has been made by NCAT, any appeal from that decision should be dealt with in NCAT's internal appeal jurisdiction rather than under the transitional provisions. 
The proceedings below were commenced on 2 January 2013 in the CTTT and the evidence and submissions had been completed by 12 December 2013 when the CTTT reserved its decision. No decision had, however, been made as at 1 January 2014 when the CTTT was abolished, by operation of cl 3 of Schedule 1 to the Act, and NCAT came into existence, under s 7 of the Act. 
Clause 6(1) of Schedule 1 to the Act contains a definition of "pending proceedings" as follows:
The proceedings below had been commenced before 1 January 2014, that is "the establishment day" referred to in cl 6(1) and as defined in s 7(2)(a) of the Act (no proclamation having been made under s 7(2)(b)). In addition, they had not been finally determined by the CTTT before 1 January 2014 because no decision had been made by that date. Accordingly, they are "pending proceedings" within the definition in cl 6(1). 
"Part heard proceedings" are defined in cl 6(1) as "pending proceedings where the ... existing tribunal in which the proceedings were instituted or commenced had begun to hear (but had not determined) the proceedings before the establishment day." The proceedings at first instance:  (1) were pending proceedings;
Mr O'Connor, of counsel, who appeared for the appellant submitted that the proceedings at first instance could not be said to be part heard proceedings. It was argued that this followed because not only had the CTTT begun to hear, but it had also finished hearing, those proceedings before 1 January 2014. The evidence and submissions had been completed by that date. Accordingly, they were not part heard but fully heard. Whilst this may be correct when considering the ordinary English meaning of the expression "part heard proceedings", that ordinary meaning has been displaced, for the purposes of Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Act, by the definition in cl 6(1). The proceedings at first instance fell within that definition and thus they were "part heard proceedings" for the purposes of the transitional provisions of the Act, if not for other purposes. 
Furthermore, if the proceedings at first instance were not "part heard proceedings" for the purposes of the transitional provisions there would be no mechanism under those provisions whereby such proceedings could be determined by NCAT. The proceedings below were not "unheard proceedings" within the meaning of cl 7(1) and cl 6(1) of that expression because they had been heard before 1 January 2014 by the CTTT. Nor did they fall within any of the other clauses of Division 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Act. To adopt a construction of cll 6 and 7 which had the effect of leaving proceedings where the evidence and submissions had been completed but the decision had not been made by the CTTT as at 1 January 2014 unable to be dealt with by NCAT would be most unsatisfactory and is unlikely to have been the intention of the legislature. 
Consequently, it should be concluded that the proceedings below were "part heard proceedings" for the purposes of the transitional provisions, and in particular cl 7. 
Clause 7 of Schedule 1 establishes how "part heard proceedings" such as the present proceedings at first instance are to be dealt with. That clause relevantly provides:
This clause permitted Ms Rosser, the Senior Member of the CTTT who heard the matter in 2013, to continue to determine the matter sitting as NCAT after 1 January 2014 - cl 7(2)(a). She was taken to have been duly appointed a member of NCAT - cl 7(2)(b). She was entitled to have regard to the record of proceedings and evidence in the CTTT - cl 7(2)(c). And, sitting as NCAT, she had and could exercise all the functions the CTTT had immediately before its abolition - cl 7(3)(a). Finally, the law which would have applied "to or in respect of the proceedings" had the NCAT legislation not been enacted continued to apply - cl 7(3)(b). 
The question that arises for decision is whether cl 7(3)(b) applies only to the determination of the proceedings at first instance or whether it governs the appeal rights in relation to any decision in those proceedings. One basis for concluding that the clause might apply to appeal rights was the use of the words "in respect of those proceedings" in cl 7(3)(b). 
In Griffin v Ingram [2014] NSWCATAP 5 at [56] the Appeal Panel tentatively suggested (in comments not necessary for the decision in that case) that the provision in cl 9(3)(b), which is substantially the same as cl 7(3)(b), would govern the appeal rights in respect of proceedings that fell within the operation of cl 9 of Schedule 1 to the Act. There the Appeal Panel said:
Having had the benefit of specific submissions on this question, the Appeal Panel is of the view that the tentative view expressed in Griffin should not be adopted. 
The preferable construction of cl 7(3) is that it is limited in its operation to the determination of the part heard or unheard proceedings. This follows from at least 3 considerations. First, the chapeau to the subclause is in the following terms "For the purposes of subclauses (1) and (2)". The purposes of subcll 7(1) and (2) are indicated by the contents of those subclauses which are limited to providing the machinery by which proceedings commenced in an abolished tribunal can be determined by NCAT if they had not been determined by the abolished tribunal before its abolition. Subclauses 7(1) and (2) do not deal with what should occur once NCAT has decided the matter. When proceedings have been determined under subcll 7(1) or (2), the chapeau indicates that cl 7(3) should have no further role to play. 
Secondly, if the internal appeal provisions under s 80 of the Act can be invoked by a party to unheard or part heard proceedings determined under cl 7 of Schedule 1, there is no need to have the appeal provisions of pre-NCAT legislation available in order for the party to be able to appeal. Below, we conclude that the appellant in the present appeal can rely upon s 80 of the Act. 
Thirdly, the objects of the Act include establishing NCAT to "provide a single point of access for most tribunal services in the State" - s 3(a) and "to enable the Tribunal to resolve the real issues in proceedings justly, quickly, cheaply and with as little formality as possible" - s 3(d). In addition, s 36(1) specifies the "guiding principle" which the Tribunal must, under s 36(2)(b), seek to give effect to in interpreting any provision of the Act. That guiding principle is "to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings". Resolution of the real issues in proceedings includes resolution of those issues on appeal. The Appeal Panel of NCAT was established so that parties would have the ability to have any errors of law in a final or ancillary decision at first instance corrected, justly, quickly and cheaply without having to go to a Court either by way of appeal or judicial review. In addition, errors other than errors of law could be similarly dealt with on appeal to NCAT's Appeal Panel if leave were obtained. Requiring parties to proceedings determined under the transitional provisions to appeal to an external Court instead of being able to avail themselves of an appeal to the Appeal Panel does not appear to be entirely consistent with the objects of the Act, the guiding principle identified in s 36 or with the purpose for which NCAT, including its Appeal Panel, was established. This conclusion is reinforced by the consideration that the appeal rights to the District Court under s 67 of the CTTT Act are significantly more limited than the appeal rights available under s 80 of the Act. 
For these reasons and having regard to the wording, scope and purpose of the Act, the Appeal Panel concludes that the ability to appeal from a decision of NCAT in part heard or unheard proceedings falling within cl 7 of Schedule 1 is not governed by "the provisions of any Act, statutory rule or other law ... that would have applied to or in respect of the application had [the Act] and the relevant amending Acts not been enacted" under cl 7(3)(b). In the present case, the parties were not required to avail themselves of the appeal rights, such as they were, under s 67 of the CTTT Act. 
Having concluded that cl 7(3)(b) did not govern the parties' appeal rights in the present matter, it is necessary now to consider whether the decision at first instance was an "internally appealable decision" within the meaning of ss 80 and 32 of the Act so that the parties could appeal to the Appeal Panel. 
NCAT's internal appeals jurisdiction is established by s 32 of the Act and the right of a party to appeal against an "internally appealable decision" is conferred by s 80. Section 80(1) states:
An "internally appealable decision" is defined in s 32(4) as "a decision of [NCAT] or a registrar over which [NCAT] has internal appeal jurisdiction". 
Section 32(1) provides:
The present appeal concerns a decision of NCAT under the RT Act, relying upon the transitional provisions in cl 7 of Schedule 1 to the Act. It does not involve a registrar's decision or an administrative review decision. Consequently, the decision will be an "internally appealable decision" if it can properly be characterised as a "general decision" within the meaning of that expression in the Act.  (1) 
Section 29(3) provides:
Section 29(1) provides:
The matter before the Tribunal at first instance, concerning as it did termination and possession orders under the RT Act, did not fall within the administrative review jurisdiction, appeal jurisdiction or enforcement jurisdiction of NCAT (see ss 30, 32 and 33 respectively). 
Thus, the decision under appeal will be a "general decision" within s 29(1) if "legislation (other than this Act or the procedural rules)" enabled NCAT "to make decisions or exercise other functions ... of a kind specified by the legislation in respect of" the matter in question. 
The RT Act (in its pre-NCAT form) enabled the CTTT to make certain decisions and exercise other functions including making an order terminating a residential tenancy under s 87(4) and a termination order or an order for possession under s 187(1)(i). By operation of cl 7 of Schedule 1 of the Act, NCAT had and could exercise all the functions that the CTTT had under the RT Act in its pre-NCAT form. 
As Mr Stafford, of counsel, who appeared for the respondent, submitted, there is an argument that the decision at first instance was not a "general decision" and thus not an "internally appealable decision" because:  (1) NCAT would not have had power to make the decision without cl 7 of Schedule 1 to the Act; 
Mr Stafford went on, however, to submit that this argument should not be accepted and that the better view was that NCAT was enabled, in the relevant sense, to make the decision and exercise the functions that it did by the RT Act which is "legislation (other than this Act or the procedural rules)". Thus, the decision was a "general decision" and an "internally appealable decision" for the purposes of the Act. The Appeal Panel is of the view that this submission of Mr Stafford should be accepted. 
NCAT's ability to determine the proceedings at first instance and to make the decision it did, depended upon both the transitional provisions in cl 7 of Schedule 1 and the RT Act, ss 87 and 187. Nothing turns on the fact that the Tribunal decided to refuse rather than to grant relief under those sections. Accordingly, it is correct to say in relation to the matter before the Tribunal at first instance that the RT Act enabled NCAT "to make decisions or exercise other functions ... in respect of that matter". Indeed, without the RT Act, neither the CTTT nor NCAT would have been able to hear and determine the matter at all. There being no dispute that the matter did not otherwise fall within the administrative review jurisdiction, appeal jurisdiction or enforcement jurisdiction of the Tribunal, it should be concluded that the decision at first instance was a "general decision" within the meaning of the Act. 
The specific wording in s 29(1)(a) also supports this conclusion. Section 29(1)(a) establishes a condition that must be fulfilled if a decision in a matter is to be characterised as a "general decision", namely, "if legislation (other than this Act or the procedural rules) enables the Tribunal to make decisions or exercise other functions ... of a kind specified by the legislation in respect of that matter" (emphasis added). The words "the legislation" refer back to "legislation (other than this Act [etc])". The condition therefore envisages that it has to be the other legislation which specifies the kind of functions or decisions that can be exercised or made. No kinds of functions or decisions that NCAT could make or exercise are "specified" in the transitional provision. It was the RT Act (in, for example, ss 87(4) and 187(1)(i)) which in the present case specified the kinds of orders that could be made or the kinds of functions that could be exercised. As a result, it should be concluded that the RT Act relevantly enabled NCAT to make decisions or exercise other functions of the kind specified in the RT Act in respect of the present matter. The RT Act is manifestly legislation other than the Act or the procedural rules. On this basis, the condition in s 29(1)(a) has been fulfilled. 
The Appeal Panel also accepts Mr Stafford's submission that the purpose of the words "other than this Act or the procedural rules" in the context of s 29(1)(a) and (b) can be understood as being to ensure that the general jurisdiction of the Tribunal is only enlivened by a decision making power or other function conferred under legislation other than the Act, the procedural rules or an enactment which enlivens the administrative review jurisdiction, appeal jurisdiction or enforcement jurisdiction of the Tribunal. The Tribunal has no general jurisdiction at large in respect of any matter. The jurisdiction must be relevantly conferred by another enactment. Since the decision making and other functions relevant to the present matter were derived from the RT Act, it should be concluded that the decision in question was made in a matter over which NCAT had general jurisdiction. 
Finally, s 29 should not be construed as establishing that a decision in a matter would be a "general decision" only if no provisions in the Act or the procedural rules were necessary ingredients in NCAT's being able to make decisions or exercise other functions in respect of the matter. Such a construction would have the unsatisfactory consequence that very few if any decisions of NCAT could be "general decisions". This would be inconsistent with the scope and purpose of s 29 in particular and the Act as a whole. 
The tentative view expressed in Griffin at [54] in relation to the operation of cl 9 of the transitional provisions, to the extent that it contrary to the analysis above, should not be accepted. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel concludes that the decision of Senior Member Rosser at first instance was a "general decision" within s 29 of the Act and thus was also an "internally appealable decision" within ss 32 and 80 of the Act. 
Consequently, the Appeal Panel of NCAT has jurisdiction to hear and determine this appeal. 
Neither party sought costs in relation to this hearing but the respondent did expressly submit that there should be no order as to costs. In these circumstances and in light of s 60 of the Act, there will be no order as to costs. 
Having announced at the hearing on 24 March 2014 its decision that it had jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal, the Appeal Panel went on, after hearing further from the parties, to make directions for the preparation of the appeal for hearing. The following directions were made: (1) The appellant file and serve any amended notice of appeal on or before 31 March 2014.
############# I'm default separator ##########9
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - transitionalprovisions - whether Appeal Panel has jurisdiction WORDS & PHRASES -"part heard proceedings" - Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW),Schedule 1, Division 3, cl 6(1)
The appellant, Owners Corporation SP 76269, is seeking to leave to appeal against a decision of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales (NCAT) dismissing an application for orders against the respondent, Draybi Bros Pty Ltd, in relation to allegedly defective building works. The claimed amount was $480,000. 
As the decision at first instance was made by NCAT under the transitional provisions in cl 7 of Schedule 1 to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act), the Appeal Panel raised with the parties concerns as to whether it had jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal, given the terms of cl 7(3) and the definition of "internally appealable decision" in the Act. Essentially the same issue arose in another matter, NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Diab [2014] NSWCATAP 8, and the Appeal Panel raised the same concerns with the parties to that matter. 
After receiving written submissions from the parties, the question of whether the Appeal Panel had jurisdiction was heard as a preliminary question on 24 March 2014 in both matters. At the end of that hearing, the Appeal Panel announced its conclusion that the Panel did have jurisdiction and indicated that it would publish its reasons for so concluding at a later time. The Panel also made directions on that occasion for the preparation of this appeal and set it down for hearing. 
These are the Appeal Panel's reasons for concluding that it has jurisdiction to hear and determine this appeal in Owners Corporation SP 76269 v Draybi Bros Pty Ltd. Separate reasons for decision have been produced in relation to the matter of NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Diab. 
The application was lodged in the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (CTTT) on 14 November 2012. The matter was first listed for direction in the CTTT on 24 January 2013 when the Tribunal, Deputy Chairperson Harrowell, identified that there was an issue as to whether or not the application was made out of time. As a result, the parties were directed to file and serve written submissions with any supporting documents on that issue. The matter was listed for a hearing on the issue of whether the application was out of time on 28 March 2013 and 4 June 2013. Although the oral hearing was completed the parties were directed to file further written submissions after which the CTTT reserved its decision. As at 31 December 2013, no decision had been made in the matter. 
On 1 January 2014, NCAT was established and on its establishment the CTTT was abolished: see the Act, s 7 and cl 3 of Schedule 1. In accordance with the transitional provisions of the Act, in particular cl 7 of Schedule 1 to the Act, Deputy Chairperson Harrowell of the CTTT who had heard the matter prior to 1 January 2014 was to continue and to determine it sitting as a Principal Member of NCAT. 
On 30 January 2014, Principal Member Harrowell delivered his decision dismissing the application together with his reasons for decision in the matter. 
On 4 February 2014, the appellant received a copy of the decision dismissing the application and the reasons for decision. On 17 February 2014 a notice of appeal was lodged under the Act, s 80.
When the appellant's notice of appeal was lodged, the Appeal Panel was concerned as to the operation, if any, of the transitional provisions in relation to the appellant's right of appeal from the decision in the proceedings at first instance. In particular, the concern was whether the transitional provisions required the appellant to appeal to the District Court rather than the Appeal Panel of NCAT. 
The concern arose in this way. The proceedings at first instance fell within the description of "part heard proceedings" in cl 7 of Schedule 1. As a consequence they were to be determined in accordance with cl 7(2). In these circumstances, under cl 7(3)(b), "the provisions of any Act, statutory rule or other law that would have applied to or in respect of the proceedings had [the NCAT legislation] not been enacted continue to apply". The question which concerned the Appeal Panel was whether the provisions of any Act which would have applied in respect of the proceedings had the NCAT legislation not been enacted and which continued to apply by operation of cl 7(3)(b) included the appeal provisions found in s 67 of the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (NSW) (the CTTT Act). If this was so, it could be argued that the appeal in the present matter should be heard by the District Court and the Appeal Panel of NCAT did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal. 
Further, the Appeal Panel was concerned that the definitions of "internally appealable decision" and "general decision" in the Act had the consequence that the decision at first instance was not "an internally appealable decision" within the meaning of ss 80 and 32 of the Act. Consequently, on this basis as well, it could be argued that the Appeal Panel did not have jurisdiction. 
Because of these concerns, the Appeal Panel gave the following directions on 24 February 2014:
The parties filed written submission in accordance with those directions and a hearing on the preliminary question of whether the Appeal Panel of NCAT has jurisdiction to hear and determine this appeal took place on 24 March 2014 at the same time as the hearing on the same question in NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Diab. 
In its decision in Diab, the Appeal Panel provided reasons for concluding that it had jurisdiction to hear and determine that appeal. Those reasons are also applicable to the preliminary question in the present matter. The fact that the application to the CTTT in this matter was under the Home Building Act 1989 and not the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 does not affect the validity of the reasoning in Diab or its applicability in the circumstances of the present matter. As a consequence it is not necessary to repeat in these reasons for decision what has been said in Diab. It is sufficient to state in summary our reasons for concluding that the Appeal Panel had jurisdiction to hear and determine the application for leave to appeal and any appeal that may result if leave is granted in this matter as follows: (1) The Appeal Panel has the power to determine its jurisdiction to hear and determine this application for leave to appeal and any resultant appeal: Diab at [13];
On the basis set out above, the Appeal Panel has jurisdiction to hear and determine this application for leave to appeal and any appeal for which leave may be granted.
Mr Carter, who appeared for the respondent in this matter, submitted that an order for indemnity costs should be made in the respondent's favour. As the respondent was not successful in contending that the Appeal Panel did not have jurisdiction, it would not be appropriate to order indemnity costs. That is not to say, however, that the costs, if any, of this application should be determined at this time. The Appeal Panel is of the view that it would be more appropriate to reserve the question of costs in relation to the hearing of the preliminary question so that it can be dealt with as part of the costs to be awarded, if any, in respect of the whole application for leave to appeal. Accordingly, the question of costs is reserved. 
Having announced at the hearing on 24 March 2014 its decision that it had jurisdiction in relation to the application for leave to appeal and any consequent appeal, the Appeal Panel went on, after hearing further from the parties, to make directions for the further preparation of the matter. The following directions were made: (1) The Appellant file and serve any further evidence upon which it will seek to rely and any written submissions on the question of leave to appeal on or before 4 April 2014.
############# I'm default separator ##########10
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal fromADT - security officer's licence revoked following findingof guilt on commonassault charge - meaning of 'fit and proper' person - relevant considerationswhen determining that question -whether the Tribunal made an error of law -whether leave should be granted for appeal to extend to the merits of theTribunal'sdecision
The Appellant (Mr Nakad) has appealed against a decision of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal affirming a decision of the Respondent (the Commissioner of Police) to revoke his Class 1AC security industry licence. Prior to the revocation, the Appellant worked as a security guard with Charlie Chan's nightclub in George Street, Sydney. The revocation was based on two incidents involving the Appellant and patrons of the nightclub. In relation to the first incident, which took place on 21 March 2012, the Appellant was charged with assault but acquitted. In relation to the second incident, which took place on 2 July 2012, the Appellant was charged with assault and found guilty, but with no conviction recorded. Based on these incidents, and other relevant evidence, the Tribunal was not satisfied that the Appellant is a "fit and proper person" to hold a Class 1AC security licence. The Security Industry Act 1997
The Appellant has the right to appeal on "questions of law". He also asks for permission (or 'leave') to appeal against the merits of the Tribunal's decision: Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW) (ADT Act), s 113(2). 
This appeal was heard on 7 November 2013, but not decided until after 1 January 2014, the date on which the Administrative Decisions Tribunal was abolished and its jurisdiction taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT). This appeal is a "part heard' matter and the provisions of the ADT Act and the Security Industry Act continue to apply: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW), Schedule 1, cll 6 and 7(3). 
The Appellant pointed out at the beginning of the hearing that Magistrate Hennessy, who was presiding on the appeal, had also presided on a stay application when these proceedings were being heard at first instance. The transcript in relation to that application was tendered in evidence before the Tribunal hearing the application. The Respondent did not apply for Magistrate Hennessy to disqualify herself from presiding on the appeal on the ground of actual or apprehended bias. Nevertheless, the Appeal Panel has not taken into account her view of the evidence at the stay hearing in determining any issue in these proceedings.
The Tribunal has power to conduct a merits review of a revocation decision: Security Industry Act, s 29(1)(c). When conducting such a review the Tribunal's task is to determine the 'correct and preferable' decision taking into account 'any relevant factual material' and 'any applicable written or unwritten law': ADT Act, s 63. The Tribunal found that the Appellant is not a fit and proper person to hold a security licence. That finding made it unnecessary for it to consider the Respondent's other submissions that the Appellant had been found guilty of a 'serious assault offence' or that it is not in the public interest for him to continue to hold a security licence. 
The Tribunal set out the factual background at [1] of its reasons:
The evidence on which the Tribunal made its findings included CCTV footage of the incidents and a transcript of the evidence and reasons for sentence in the criminal proceedings before the Local Court. The Tribunal also had the Appellant's criminal record and his affidavit dated 16 January 2013. The licensee of Charlie Chan's, Ms Dragica Zeljkovic, and the duty shift manager, Mr Max Lee, gave evidence and viewed the CCTV footage. 
The Tribunal's findings of fact included the following: (1) It is clear from the CCTV footage that the Applicant struck or struck at a patron on two occasions in circumstances where such action was unnecessary. That the Applicant struck patrons whilst working as a licensed security officer increases the gravity of his conduct (at [58]).
When assessing the evidence and coming to a conclusion, the Tribunal summarised the law on the meaning of "fit and proper" and reviewed several cases where a security guard had been charged with or convicted of assault. In summary, in reaching the conclusion that it was not satisfied that the Appellant is a 'fit and proper person' to hold a Class 1AC security licence, the Tribunal took into account the following matters: (1) what happened in each of the incidents; 
We have grouped the Appellant's grounds of appeal on questions of law into the following categories: (a) interpreted the term 'fit and proper';  (b) failed to take into account relevant considerations;  (c) exercised its powers;  (d) applied the standard of proof; and  (e) made findings of fact. 
The first two grounds overlap to some extent and will be considered together. The Appellant submitted that the Tribunal misconstrued, or failed properly to apply the term 'fit and proper' term by: (a) failing to consider the Appellant's character as a whole;
In addition, the Appellant submitted that when interpreting the term 'fit and proper person' consideration is required of: (d) the functions performed by a crowd controller including the removal of persons for behavioural reasons; and
The Respondent's power to revoke a security industry licence is set out in s 26(1A) of the Security Industry Act:
One of the grounds on which the Respondent must refuse to grant an application for a licence is that "the Commissioner is not satisfied that the applicant is a fit and proper person to hold the class of licence sought by the applicant": Security Industry Act, s 15(1). 
The effect of s 26(1A) and s 15(1) is that if the Respondent is not satisfied that the applicant is a 'fit and proper person' to hold the particular class of licence, he must revoke that licence. 
The phrase 'fit and proper' is "traditionally used in relation to persons holding offices or vocations." Hughes and Vale Pty Ltd v State of NSW (No 2) ) [1955] HCA 28;  (1955) 93 CLR 127 at 156. The High Court has said that, "The expression, 'fit and proper person', standing alone, carries no precise meaning. It takes its meaning from the context, from the activities in which the person is or will be engaged and the ends to be served by those activities." Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33;  (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 380. 
The Security Industry Act requires the decision maker to reach a level of satisfaction about an applicant's fitness and propriety taking into account the class of licence sought and the ends to be served by those activities. The level of satisfaction about fitness and propriety is reached, or not reached, on the basis of all the relevant evidence. Depending on the circumstances, that evidence may relate to the honesty, knowledge or ability of the person, but it is not limited to those matters: Hughes and Vale Pty Ltd v State of New South Wales (No 2) [1955] HCA 28;  (1955) 93 CLR 127 at 156. 
The Appellant submitted that the word 'proper' carries an additional meaning to the word 'fit.' Fitness was said to relate to knowledge, qualifications, physical and intellectual ability, experience and past performance. Whether the person is a 'proper' person to have the licence was said to involve considerations of 'the person's character and the degree of confidence that good character will characterise their future conduct: Abbott and APRA  [2008] AATA 641 at  [168]. 
In an article published recently in the NSW Law Society Journal ('Plain English' (2014) 52(2) Law Society Journal 34) plain English expert, Professor Peter Butt, rejects that analysis. He criticises the legislature for using phrases such as 'fit and proper' which involve 'pairing' - using two words when one suffices. According to Professor Butt, that practice "is a common cause of prolixity in legal documents." In Professor Butt's opinion 'fit' on its own is an adequate alternative for 'fit and proper'. 
Whether a decision maker has made an error of law by failing to take into account a relevant consideration depends on what the statute, either expressly or impliedly, makes relevant: Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend Ltd [1986] HCA 40;  (1986) 162 CLR 24. One obvious consideration which the Security Industry Act expressly makes relevant is "the class of licence sought by the applicant" and, by implication, the "ends to be served by those activities." 
The Tribunal noted in its reasons at [1] that the Appellant was the holder of a Class 1AC security licence. That licence authorised him to patrol, protect or guard any property while unarmed and to act as a crowd controller: Security Industry Act, s 11. A "crowd controller" means a person whose functions include "removing persons for behavioural or other reasons" from licenced premises: Security Industry Act, s 4(c). 
These definitions suggest that holders of Class 1AC licences may be required to remove intoxicated patrons from licenced premises and that those patrons may be aggressive or, at least, confrontational. One of the aims of removing persons from licenced premises is to protect other patrons and members of the public. Contrary to the Appellant's submission, the Tribunal took into those functions when determining fitness and propriety. The Tribunal took into account the requirements and responsibilities of security officers particularly at paragraphs [32], [56] and [57].
The Tribunal assessed the Appellant's fitness and propriety in the context of his functions. The fact that it is a routine matter for the Appellant to remove people who are misbehaving and that those actions are designed to protect the public, is uncontroversial. The Tribunal did not err in law by failing to refer expressly to those functions. 
It is not an error of law for the Tribunal to fail to consider a person's 'character as a whole' or his or her 'honesty, knowledge or ability' unless there is evidence of those matters before it. Those matters are not discrete 'considerations' which the Security Industry Act makes relevant. They are merely elements or indications of fitness and propriety. A decision maker is required to consider all the evidence that is relevant to that question and to make an evaluative judgment taking into account "the class of licence sought by the applicant" and the "ends to be served by those activities." It did so in this case.
The Appellant submitted that the Tribunal regarded the assault charge and the finding of guilt without conviction as 'determinative' or 'presumptive' of the fact that he is not a 'fit and proper' person. He submitted that that was an error because it is necessary to take into account the whole of the individual's experience and his or her full range of qualifications: Vines v ASIC [2007] NSWCA 126;  (2007) 63 ACSR 505 at 519. A relevant passage from Abbott and APRA  [2008] AATA 641 on which the Appellant relied is at [166]:
The Tribunal formed the view at [60], that it could not be confident that the Appellant "would not again retaliate". That view was not based on a presumption that his past misconduct automatically meant that he was not a 'fit and proper' person. The Tribunal analysed that conduct and made findings of fact about it. The conclusion was based on the evidence of the two incidents and the finding that the Appellant struck or struck at a patron when provoked. The Tribunal also took into account at [60] that the Appellant had a 'good record". The Appellant did not point to any other aspect of his experience, qualifications or character which the Tribunal failed to take into account. 
The Appellant submitted that the Tribunal erred by revoking his licence rather than considering whether it should be suspended. That was not an error of law because the licence must be revoked if the Commissioner is "not satisfied that the applicant is a fit and proper person to hold the class of licence sought by the applicant." Furthermore, the power of suspension in s 25 is a temporary measure to enable the Respondent to consider an Applicant's submissions about revocation. 
When making primary findings of fact the Tribunal must be satisfied of those findings to the civil standard, that is, "on the balance of probabilities". The Appellant submitted that a finding that a person is not a 'fit and proper person' and the consequences of that finding, are both serious matters. The law requires that a decision maker take into account the serious nature of the allegations and their consequences: Briginshaw v Briginshaw [1938] HCA 34;  (1938) 60 CLR 336. According to the Appellant, the Tribunal failed to do so.
When reviewing a decision of an administrator, the Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence and may inquire into and inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks fit, subject to the rules of procedural fairness: ADT Act, s 73(2). Although not bound by the rules of evidence, the Tribunal must base its decision on 'probative evidence': Re Pochi and Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs [1979] AATA 64;  (1979) 36 FLR 482 at 491-493. 
The principles in Briginshaw are reflected, to some extent, in s 140(2)(c) of the Evidence Act 1995
We understand the Appellant's point to be that the Tribunal did not have regard to the gravity of the matters alleged when determining whether it was satisfied that the case had been proved. We do not accept that proposition for two reasons. 
Firstly, to be satisfied that a person is a 'fit and proper' person to engage in certain activities is an 'evaluative conclusion' or opinion based on primary facts: R v Connell; ex parte Hetton Bellbird Collieries Ltd [1944] HCA 42;  (1944) 69 CLR 407 at 430 and Calvista Australia Pty Ltd v Administrative Appeals Tribunal [2013] FCA 860. The 'gravity of the matters alleged' applies to the primary factual allegations, not to the evaluative conclusion. 
One of the primary findings of fact was that the Appellant had "struck or struck at a patron on two separate occasions in circumstances where such action was unnecessary." We do not understand the Appellant to be submitting that the Tribunal did not have regard to the gravity of those matters when making its findings. 
Secondly, there is no onus of proof, as that term is generally understood, in merits review cases: Bushell v Repatriation Commission [1992] HCA 47;  (1992) 175 CLR 408 at 424-425; SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63;  (2006) 228 CLR 152 at  [40]. The Tribunal must decide what the correct and preferable decision is having regard to any relevant factual material: ADT Act, s 63(1). 
The questions of law that may arise in relation to fact finding are limited. Examples include: (6) making findings without evidence or in the face of the evidence: Azzopardi v Tasman UEB Industries Ltd (1985) 4 NSWLR 139 at 155-156; Bugeja v Hatgiantounio [2002] NSWCA 132 at  [9]; and
At [58] - [60] the Tribunal found that:
In making these findings the Appellant submitted that the Tribunal failed to refer to the evidence given in the Local Court proceedings by two eye-witnesses, Mr Lee and Mr Dula. In addition, it was said that the Tribunal did not take account of evidence given by Mr Funa. The transcript of the Local Court proceedings was before the Tribunal and while the Tribunal referred to the Magistrates' reasoning, it did not refer specifically to the evidence of these witnesses.
The Respondent made the point that the Appellant did not take the Tribunal to any part of the transcript before the Local Court and ask it to have regard to that evidence. The Appellant's response was that it does not matter that these things were not referred to at first instance because that evidence was nevertheless before the Tribunal.
There is no need to refer to all the evidence in detail before making a finding of fact. In Beale v GIO (1997) 48 NSWLR 430 at 443 Meagher JA set out the relevant principle:
The Appellant did not say how the evidence Mr Lee or Mr Dula gave in the Local Court was important or critical to a proper determination of the matter before the Tribunal. While the Tribunal did not refer expressly to that evidence that does not mean that it was overlooked. This ground of appeal does not disclose an error of law. 
According to the Appellant, the Tribunal found that Ms Zeljkovic, the licensee of Charlie Chan's had changed her opinion about whether the Appellant would re-offend after seeing the CCTV footage of the second incident. The Appellant submitted that there was no evidence that she had changed her mind. Her evidence was unwavering apart from her agreement when a specific question was put to her in cross-examination. The Respondent pointed to the relevant evidence in the transcript of the proceedings below. In cross-examination Ms Zeljkovic agreed with the proposition that she could not be confident that the Appellant would not reoffend.
According to the Appellant, that agreement given in cross-examination does not undermine the strong evidence that Ms Zeljkovic had previously given. The Appellant added that she may not be confident that he would not reoffend but that view had nothing to do with her having seen the CCTV footage. 
Whether Ms Zeljkovic's concession was based on having seen the CCTV footage or not, the concession was made in cross examination and the Tribunal did not err by relying on it. The Tribunal's finding about the likelihood of the Appellant re-offending was reasonably open to it. 
The Appellant also sought leave to extend the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. The jurisdiction to review the merits is not predicated on the Appellant identifying a question of law or persuading the Tribunal that there has been an error of law: Lloyd v Veterinary Surgeons Investigating Committee (2005) 65 NSWLR 245 at 256-257. 
The Tribunal has a discretion to grant or not to grant leave. Demonstrating that there is an 'arguable case' or a 'bona fide challenge to an issue of fact' is not sufficient: Karim v Council of the New South Wales Bar Association [2005] NSWCA 93, Mason P at [33] and [34]. Some of the considerations which the Tribunal has regarded as relevant when determining whether to grant leave include: (8) whether 'an appellant could point to some blatant and important error of fact which called for remedy by an Appeal Panel in the interests of justice': Lloyd v TCN Channel Nine Pty Ltd & Anor [1999] NSWADTAP 3 at  [151]; 
The reasons the Appellant gave for asking the Tribunal to extend the appeal to the merits were that the Tribunal: (10) gave little weight to the sentencing remarks made by the Magistrate in relation to the second incident;
'Sentencing remarks' is a misnomer. The judge imposing a sentence makes 'orders' and give reasons for those orders: Sudath v Health Care Complaints Commission [2012] NSWCA 171 at  [16]. The reasons will often include findings of fact as well as expressions of opinion such as Barko LCM's opinion that the Appellant would be unlikely to re-offend. Barko LCM said that he had "complete confidence" that the Appellant would not be before the court again. 
Magistrate Barko found the Appellant guilty of assault but did not record a conviction: Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999
The Tribunal expressed the view at [49], that it was unclear on what basis Barko LCM had come to the view that the Appellant had learnt a valuable lesson and would not re-offend. The Tribunal came to the opposite view at [60], that is, that it could not be confident that the Appellant would not again retaliate if faced with a similar situation. 
The Appellant submitted that the Tribunal should have given more weight to the Magistrate's findings because he has expertise and extensive experience in determining the likelihood of recidivism. In circumstances where no further evidence detrimental to the Appellant was proffered by the Respondent, there was no basis for the Tribunal coming to a different view from the Magistrate on this issue. 
This is not a case where the fact of a criminal conviction, by itself, required the licence to be revoked. Where a statute makes the fact of a conviction the trigger for administrative action, the Tribunal cannot look behind the conviction and examine the circumstances of the offence. But in cases where the issue is a person's character or fitness, there must be an inquiry into the facts which allegedly make the person unfit or of bad character: In Sudath v Health Care Complaints Commission [2012] NSWCA 171, in the context of an appeal from a decision by the Medical Tribunal, Whealy JA, with whom Meagher JA agreed, expressed the principle in the following terms at [101]:
Whealy JA made it clear that the Medical Tribunal was not rehearing criminal matters that had already been determined by the District Court. His Honour went on to say that:
In Sudath, Basten J, at [93], referred to an earlier decision of Branson J in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Ali [2000] FCA 1385. Basten J summarised the effect of that decision in the following terms:
In this case the Respondent relied, among other things, on the transcript of the proceedings before the Local Court and the reasons the Magistrate gave on sentencing. The Tribunal took into account the evidence the Appellant adduced from the licensee of Charlie Chan's, Dragica Zeljkovic and the manager of the security staff, Max Lee. In coming to a view that was contrary to that expressed by Magistrate Barko about the Appellant's likelihood of re-offending, the Tribunal relied on the following matters: (1) Ms Zeljkovic did not think the Appellant would repeat the conduct because he would risk losing his job, but that is precisely the situation the Appellant was in after the first incident and yet, for whatever reason, he engaged in similar, or probably worse behaviour in the second incident, less than four months later; (at [53])
This was evidence which was before the Tribunal and which did not support Barko LCM's opinion that the Appellant would be unlikely to re-offend. While the Tribunal was entitled to give the Magistrate's remarks significant weight, it was also entitled to come to its own view about this issue on the basis of the evidence before it. In those circumstances there is no justification for extending the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. 
The first of the remaining three grounds on which the Appellant relied to submit that the Tribunal should extend the appeal to the merits, was that the Tribunal gave little weight to the views of Ms Zeljkovic and Mr Lee about the Appellant's character. The Appellant relied on Ms Zeljkovic's evidence as to his competence and ability to handle difficult situations. He also relied on evidence from Charlie Nohra, rostering manager for EGroup Security, who provided a reference. 
The Tribunal found at [60], that the Appellant had a 'good record'. Despite that fact, the Tribunal could not be confident that the Appellant would not retaliate again, if provoked. 
The second of the remaining grounds was that the Tribunal placed little or no weight on the fact that the Appellant had previously provided evidence for the prosecution of offenders where he had been a witness and that he had otherwise assisted police in investigating the commission of offences. At [50] the Tribunal gave "little weight" to this behaviour saying that he did "no more than is his civic responsibility."
The third matter was that the Tribunal referred to other decisions involving assaults by security guards and compared them with the Appellant's conduct. The Tribunal concluded at [44] that his conduct fell "well short" of the kind of conduct involved in those cases. The Appellant suggested that in those circumstances the Tribunal should not have been satisfied that the Appellant is not a fit and proper person to hold a Class 1AC security licence.
The Tribunal went about its fact finding process in an entirely orthodox and fair manner. None of the matters raised by the Appellant led the Tribunal to make a 'blatant and important error of fact'. The Tribunal's finding that it was not satisfied that the Appellant is a 'fit and proper person' to hold the particular class of licence was open to it on the evidence. Having reached that level of satisfaction the Tribunal was bound to affirm the Respondent's decision. 
The Appellant sought to tender a further statement to the Appeal Panel from Daniel Trifu, the Managing Director of DL Star Pty Limited and the principal, Trifu Dojo Martial Arts. Mr Trifu had previously employed the Appellant. The statement expressed views about the incidents in which the Appellant had been involved and the likelihood that he would re-offend. 
In some circumstances, further evidence may be adduced on appeal. The principles in relation to whether or not such evidence should be permitted to be adduced was set out in the Appeal Panel's decision of Building Professionals Board v Hans (GD)  [2008] NSWADTAP 13 at  [54]- [57]. The principles relevant to this case are that:
We have decided not to admit the further evidence. That evidence, even if it had been adduced before the Tribunal, would have been unlikely to have produced a different result. The Tribunal had similar evidence from the Appellant's employer at the time but was still not satisfied of his fitness and propriety. 
At [18] of Mr Trifu's statement, he says that he was overseas at the time of the Tribunal hearing, so could not have given evidence. The Appellant relied on that evidence but did not say whether Mr Trifu had been approached to give evidence at the time. If the statement had been filed in the Tribunal proceedings, Mr Trifu may have been able to give evidence by phone or video link. We also take into account in rejecting the further evidence, the inconvenience, uncertainty and additional cost occasioned by the need to schedule a further hearing if the further evidence is admitted. 
############# I'm default separator ##########11
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - Appeal PanelDUTIES - declaration of trust over land - whether declaration of trustwas over dutiable property - whether permissible to look outsidedeclaratoryprovision to broader trust instrument to identify property - penalty tax -premium interest component - market rate interestcomponent - failure ofTribunal to take submission into account - leave to extend appeal to themerits
Al-Saeed and Associates Pty Limited atf Al-Saeed Educational and Welfare Trust (the Appellant) was assessed to ad valorem duty on a declaration of trust over land at 1492 Camden Valley Way, Leppington (the Property). The Tribunal, at first instance, held that a Deed of Trust executed on 1 September 2011 (the Trust Deed) constituted a declaration of trust pursuant to s 8(3) of the Duties Act 1997 (NSW) (the Duties Act): Al-Saeed and Association (sic) Pty Ltd ATF Al-Saeed Education and Welfare Trust v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2013] NSWADT 155 (the Decision). The Appellant appeals on the grounds that the Tribunal erred in law and seeks leave, if necessary, to extend leave to appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. 
The Duties Act creates and charges duty on a number of transactions including "a declaration of trust over dutiable property": s 3; s 8(1)(b)(ii). Section 9(1) provides, in effect, that the duty charged on a declaration of trust is to be charged as if it were a transfer of dutiable property. Pursuant to s 9(2)(c) a transfer of the property the subject of the declaration is taken to have occurred when the declaration of trust is made. Section 8(3) of the Duties Act defines, exhaustively, the expression "declaration of trust" as follows:
Dutiable property is defined in s 11 of the Duties Act. Relevantly, dutiable property includes land in New South Wales (s 11(1)(a)) but does not include money. 
Section 58 of the Duties Act charges duty on a declaration of trust over non-dutiable property or unidentified property. Of particular relevance is sub-s 58(2) which provides as follows:
Prior to the introduction of the Duties Act the analogous provisions were found in the Stamp Duties Act 1920 (NSW) (the Stamp Act). The Second Schedule of the Stamp Act levied duty on a "Declaration of Trust" defined as follows:
Relevantly, there are two notable differences between the Stamp Act and the Duties Act. First, the Stamp Act levied duty on instruments whereas the Duties Act levies duty on transactions. Secondly, s 8(3) of the Duties Act expressly requires the property the subject of the declaration to be identified. This requirement was implied under the Stamp Act: Chief Commissioner of State Revenue v Platinum Investment Management Ltd [2011] NSWCA 48;  (2011) 80 NSWLR 240 at  [20] - [21] per Campbell JA (referring to Mason J in DKLR Holding Company (No 2) Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Stamp Duties (NSW) [1982] HCA 14;  (1982) 149 CLR 431; Handley AJA at [83].
At [29] of the Decision, the Tribunal identified the question as follows:
The Tribunal concluded that the Deed of Trust was a declaration of trust that satisfied the statutory definition: at [36] of the Decision. In reaching this conclusion the Tribunal considered the Trust Deed as a whole. 
Clause 1 of the Trust Deed provides as follows:
Read in isolation, clause 1 does not identify any dutiable property. 
Relevantly, Recital C provides as follows:
To the extent it is relevant, the Appellant executed the contract for the purchase of the Property on 2 September 2011.
The Tribunal said at [35]:
However, the Tribunal concluded that there was no warrant for excluding Recital C from the analysis and accordingly construed the Trust Deed as a whole rather than constraining the analysis to clause 1. It is apparent from [30] of the Decision that Recital C and clause 1 of the Trust Deed were read as one. The Tribunal said at [30]:
The Tribunal concluded at [36] of the Decision:
Finally, the Tribunal rejected the then Applicant's claim that the penalty ought to have been remitted, saying at [27]:
The amended grounds of appeal filed 22 August 2013 provide as follows:
At the hearing the Appellant refined its grounds, in effect, to the following three propositions (the Grounds): (1) The Tribunal misconstrued s 8(3) of the Duties Act by looking outside the declaration (which the Appellant contends was solely contained in clause 1 of the Trust Deed) for the identification of the Property. Put another way, the Tribunal erroneously looked to the Trust Deed as a whole rather than confined its analysis to clause 1 of the Trust Deed.  (2) Even if permissible to look beyond clause 1, Recital C did not identify the property the subject of the declaration. Clause 1 of the Trust Deed referred to property "given" to the Trust and it was undisputed that the property identified in Recital C was "purchased" by the Trustee. (3) Further, the Appellant contended that the Tribunal erred in failing to consider a principal submission in relation to whether interest ought to be remitted.
Insofar as the Appellant contends that the Tribunal misconstrued the statute, this raises a question of law: Lombard Farms Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2013] NSWADTAP 42 at  [5] to [23]. The Respondent accepts that the ground raises a question of law. 
Insofar as the Appellant contends that Recital C does not identify the Property the subject of the Trust, this too raises a question of law. The Appellant contends the finding was not open. This is in effect a "no evidence" ground. A finding that is merely against the weight of evidence or the product of illogical reasoning is not generally erroneous in the requisite sense. However, making a wrong finding of fact amounts to an error of law where there is no evidence to support it: Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33;  (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 355 - 356; Australian Gaslight Co v Valuer-General [1940] NSWStRp 9;  (1940) 40 SR (NSW) 126 at 138. The Respondent concedes that this ground raises a question of law.
Finally, whether the Tribunal failed to consider a principal submission of the then Applicant also raises a question of law. The Respondent properly conceded this ground raised a question of law. In Comcare Australia v Rowe [2002] FCA 1034 Merkel J said at [12]: 
In Brodyn Pty Ltd v Davenport [2004] NSWCA 394;  (2004) 61 NSWLR 421 at  [57] it was noted, in the context of a statutory regime that mandated an opportunity for submissions, that a decision reached by an adjudicator failing to receive and consider submissions would be invalid. A similar regime exists here: ss 73(2), (4)(c), Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW) (ADT Act). These provisions are still relevant notwithstanding the abolishment of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT). Schedule 1, clause 7 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act) relevantly provides that unheard proceedings from the now abolished ADT are taken to have been duly commenced in the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT). By clause 7(3)(b) of Schedule 1 of the NCAT Act, the provisions of the ADT Act that would have applied in respect of the proceedings had the NCAT Act and relevant amending Acts not been enacted, continue to apply. There are applicable because the appeal was lodge in the ADT prior to the commencement of NCAT. 
The Appellant also sought leave to extend the appeal to the merits pursuant to s 113(2)(b) of the ADT Act (this provision is relevant for the reasons expressed in the previous paragraph). In order to extend an appeal to the merits it is not necessary to establish error of law, but there must be some warrant for the grant of leave: Bilquip Pty Ltd, Illmat Pty Ltd, Holibass Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (NSW) (RD) [2013] NSWADTAP 36 at  [38], [39]. At the hearing it was apparent that the Appellant sought leave to extend the appeal to the merits only so far as was necessary for the Appeal Panel to determine the matter if error was established or insofar as necessary to determine whether error had occurred. During the hearing, no separate warrant for granting leave to extend the appeal to the merits was suggested. Nevertheless, in written submissions the Appellant contended that the various errors of law, which it pointed to, demonstrated unfair or unorthodox treatment of the evidence, which would be a warrant for leave: K & K [2000] NSWSC 1052 at  [10] - [15]. Further, the Appellant contended that these demonstrated the making of blatant and important errors of fact: Building Professionals Board v Hands (GD) [2008] NSWADTAP 13. 
The Appellant summarised the key issue as whether dutiable property must be identified within the provision declaring the trust or whether the property may be more generally identified in the instrument containing the declaration of trust.
The Appellant's primary submission was that in determining whether a declaration satisfies the statutory definitions one must confine the scope of enquiry to the declaration itself. The Appellant's submission was that there must be a single declaration that satisfies all of the elements required by s 8(3), in order for there to be a dutiable transaction under s 8(1)(b)(ii). The Appellant contended that one may not look outside the declaration to see whether all the elements are satisfied. 
The Appellant submitted that this construction was supported by the text of s 8(3) which referred to "any declaration" (in the singular) and which expressly referred to "identified" (and not identifiable) property. Further, the Appellant submitted that any other construction would lead to uncertainty, as one would not know where to draw the line when looking to identify the property the subject of the declaration. 
The Appellant submitted that in this case clause 1 of the Trust Deed created the Trust over the Trust Fund. The Trust Fund, at the time of the declaration comprised only the settlement sum. In other words, the Trust was created over the settlement sum in accordance with clause 1, but not over the Property. The Appellant submitted that if the Property became part of the Trust Fund (as to which see Ground 2), it became part of the Trust Fund of the pre-existing trust when it was acquired on behalf of the Trust. The Appellant emphasised that s 8(3) applies where the words in question create a trust: Farrar v Commissioner of Stamp Duties (1975) 5 ATR 364 at 370. It does not apply where the words in question subject property to an existing trust.
At the hearing, the Appellant expressly rejected reliance upon the fact that the Property was identified in a mere Recital to the Deed and was not expressly referred to in an operative clause of the Deed of Trust. The Appellant contended that the result it sought flowed solely from the fact that the declaration was wholly contained in clause 1 and beyond that s 8(3) did not reach. No argument was addressed to whether the Recital was to take effect and could properly be construed as part of the Deed of Trust. In its written submissions, the Appellant contended that Recital C, of its own, did not amount to a declaration of trust, but the Respondent in his written submissions indicated that such a proposition was not advanced.
The Respondent contended that the text of s 8(3) of the Duties Act supported a construction that the property need not be identified in the particular declaration. The only matters that needed to be "mentioned" in the declaration are names of the beneficiaries or purposes of the Trust. The express stipulation (in s 8(3)) that those matters be mentioned in the declaration is to be contrasted with the absence of such a specific requirement in relation to the identity of the property. 
The Respondent contends that where a declaration of trust is effected by an instrument, as it was in this case, the elements of the statutory definition may be contained in the whole of the instrument rather than in a single provision of an instrument. Where the declaration of trust is contained in an instrument, it is not necessary to have regard to individual provisions in an artificially compartmentalised manner. In other words, where a transaction is effected in writing one may look at the whole of the writing to determine whether s 8(3) is satisfied. The Respondent contended that this construction does not produce uncertainty.
Further, the Respondent contends that none of the leading authorities in relation to declarations of trust mandate a conclusion that the property must be identified in the declaration. The Respondent highlighted that Handley AJA in Platinum Investment at [86] said that "the property to be vested must be identified when the instrument is first executed". His Honour did not refer to any requirement that such property be mentioned or identified in the declaration itself. Mason J (as his Honour then was) in DKLR (at 455) (which concerned the Stamp Act) stated that the paragraph there under consideration looks to a declaration affecting property which is "capable of identification at the time of execution of the instrument". Gibbs CJ, also in DKLR (at 439), stated "there must be property comprised in the instrument. That property must be identifiable and ascertainable." With respect to that last submission the Appellant highlighted that most of the cases deal with an earlier provision under the Stamp Act which was not in precisely the same terms as s 8(3), a matter to which we return below.
Finally, the Respondent pointed to a hiatus in the legislation that tends against the Appellant's construction. If the Appellant's contention be accepted, many transactions would escape duty. Section 58 levies duty on declarations of trust over unidentified property. To fall within s 58 the property must be "not identified in the instrument". Declarations of trust over property identified in an instrument but not in the particular clause declaring the trust would escape duty on the Appellant's construction and this cannot have been intended. 
As the Appellant correctly highlighted, all the leading cases concerning duty on declarations of trust other than Platinum Investment concerned the Stamp Act or other Acts and the provisions concerned are not identical to s 8(3) of the Duties Act. In the Stamp Act, the second Schedule concerned "any property vested or to be vested ...". There was no express requirement that the declaration relate to "any identified property vested or to be vested" as appears in s 8(3). As noted by Mason J in DKLR at 455, in order to be able to calculate the amount of the duty it was necessary to be able to identify the property that was vested or to be vested in the declarant. The requirement that the property be identified or identifiable was implied. Today, the requirement that the property be "identified" is express. The Appellant submitted that little could be gained from a close reading of the earlier authorities because of this difference. This submission gains support from Campbell JA in Platinum Investment at [2] where his Honour noted a preference not to place particular reliance upon the way in which the Stamp Act provisions were construed. His Honour said:
On the other hand, in Platinum Investment Handley AJA said at [63]:
Mindful of the differences between the Stamp Act and the Duties Act we nevertheless find assistance in the earlier authorities. First, the uncertainty that the Appellant contends would make it unworkable to look beyond the words of the declaration, existed under the Stamp Act. There was no need, under the Stamp Act, to identify the property in the instrument: it sufficed if the property was identifiable (DKLR at 455). Nevertheless, as the myriad of cases decided under that Act demonstrate, the provision was not unworkable. 
Secondly, the earlier cases highlight that it may be artificial to think of a declaration of trust as being contained in one clause of an instrument such as a Deed of Trust. In Tooheys Limited v Commissioner of Stamp Duties (NSW) [1961] HCA 35;  (1961) 105 CLR 602; Tooheys Limited v Commissioner of Stamp Duties (NSW)  [1960] SR (NSW) 539 several clauses and rules made up the declaration of trust within the instrument. Clause 8 provided that the Trustees held the fund upon the trusts in the instrument and various other clauses gave the Trustees certain powers. The Rules (which were to take effect and be read with the Deed) identified the members. 
Here, clause 1 of the Trust Deed itself makes reference to the rest of the Trust Deed by stating that the Trustees must hold the Trust Fund "in accordance with the terms of this Deed". It is therefore artificial to construe clause 1 in isolation and we disagree with the Appellant that clause 1 itself contains the whole of the declaration of trust. It is therefore necessary to have regard to the whole of the Trust Deed. We are supported in our view by the decision in Platinum Investment which is the only relevant decision under the Duties Act. There the operative clause, clause 2.2(a), provided as follows:
One was required to look beyond clause 2.2 to the definitions (clause 1.1) and a schedule in order to be able to fully identify the dutiable property mentioned in clause 2.2 (the Consideration Shares) and the quantum of shares.
Furthermore, contrary to ground (1)(a) of the amended grounds of appeal, s 58 would not apply, because the Property is identified in the instrument (see Ground 2 below). On the Appellant's construction of s 8(3), s 58 could not be engaged, thus exposing the gap in the legislation. 
For the foregoing reasons, where a declaration of trust is found in an instrument and it is not expressly or impliedly quarantined (as it is not here) it is permissible to look to the whole of the instrument to determine whether the elements of s 8(3) are satisfied. Accordingly, there was no error of law in the Tribunal construing clause 1 with Recital C.
The Appellant contended that Recital C does not describe any property that could or would, once vested, become part of the Trust Fund as defined in the Trust Deed. Accordingly, even if permissible to construe the declaration in clause 1 by reference to other provisions of the Trust Deed, there is nevertheless no declaration of trust that satisfies the statutory definition. This submission is based on the difference in language employed in Recital C and clause 1. Recital C refers to "acquiring" the Property (and it was agreed that the acquisition was effected by a purchase of the Property) and the declaration in clause 1 is limited to property "given" to the Trust. 
The Respondent contends that it is apparent from the Deed of Trust read as a whole, that the expression "given" in clause 1 must be read as "acquired". Unless it is read this way, the Property, which was objectively intended to be held on the express terms of the Trust Deed would not be, because the Property would not satisfy the definition of Trust Fund in clause 1. 
The Appellant replied that notwithstanding that the Property did not satisfy the definition of Trust Fund, it would nonetheless be held for the purposes referred to in the Trust Deed, having been acquired with the Trust Fund. 
The conclusion of the Tribunal, that the Property would satisfy the definition of Trust Fund once vested in the Trustee was reasonably open. The fact alone that Recital C to the Trust Deed refers to the Property is capable of supporting that conclusion.
Further, the Trust Deed gives power to the Trustee to invest monies of the Trust Fund and to change those investments: clauses 3.1 and 3.2 (extracted at [2] of the Decision). On the Appellant's case (that the Trust Fund does not extend to purchased assets) no future investment of the Trust Fund would satisfy the definition of Trust Fund. This is unlikely to have been intended. This supports a conclusion that, viewed objectively, the Property satisfied the definition of the Trust Fund.
Accordingly, no error of law is demonstrated as there is some basis for the conclusion that Recital C identified property the subject of the declaration.
The Appellant contends that the Tribunal ignored a substantive aspect of its case: the reasons why interest ought to have been remitted. At [27] of the then Applicant's submissions, at first instance, it was said, in relation to the remission of interest:
Section 275 of the Duties Act refers to an exemption for charitable and benevolent bodies. 
At [27] of the Decision the Tribunal said:
The Respondent contended that the then Applicant's submissions were not ignored, they were simply not backed up by reasons and accordingly there is no error.
The Tribunal held that there was an absence of reasoning; and in light of the then Applicant's burden there was no basis to remit interest. Whether this constituted an error of law requires an analysis of what grounds might justify a remission of interest. 
As the Appeal Panel said in Cornish Investments Pty Limited v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (RD) [2013] NSWADTAP 25 at  [36]:
That means, in this case, that the Applicant was obliged to put on sufficient material to demonstrate that the factors said to justify remission of interest were present and that they justified the remission. 
There are two aspects to interest: premium interest and market rate interest. 
With respect to market rate interest, in Molyneux and Vermeesch v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (RD) (No 2) [2013] NSWADTAP 41 the Appeal Panel said at [62] and [63]:
The Appeal Panel said in Lease A Leaf Property Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (RD) [2011] NSWADTAP 41 at  [33] - [35]:
No justification in accordance with the authorities we have cited was given by the Appellant for remission of the market rate interest.
With respect to premium interest, in Chief Commissioner of State Revenue and Incise Technologies Pty Ltd and Incise Sales Pty Ltd [2004] NSWADTAP 19 the Appeal Panel said at [79]:
In accordance with what was said by the Appeal Panel in Incise at [79] there was some justification for the tax default. The then Applicant contended that the genesis of the tax default was a misapprehension as to whether the exemption on the grounds of charitable status applied and had made arrangements to pay the tax. It is to be recalled that at first instance the proceedings were determined on the papers. The Respondent, in his written submission at first instance said at [40] and [41] the following:
The Respondent did not cavil with the genuineness or reasonableness of the contention by the then Applicant that the Trust Deed had been lodged as an exempt instrument on the basis that the Trustee was holding the property for a charitable body. The Respondent contended that such a factor did not justify remission.
Consistently with Incise and since the Respondent did not take issue with the underlying assertion that the then Applicant had been operating under a genuine misapprehension, some justification existed, at first instance, for remitting the premium component of interest and accordingly error of law is demonstrated. The finding that no reasons were provided was not open. 
Having concluded that there was an error of law with respect to Ground 3, we must now decide what orders are appropriate. For the reason that a principal submission of the then Applicant was, in effect, not considered we would, if necessary, grant leave to extend the appeal to the merits. 
We now turn to consider whether the reasons given are sufficient to move the Appeal Panel to remit premium interest. On the one hand, the taxpayer had the onus of proving that the reasons proffered were sufficient justification for a remission of interest. On the other hand, there was no suggestion in the written submissions nor during the hearing before the Appeal Panel that the Appellant's explanation as to the tax default was disingenuous or not a reasonably held view.
The Appellant is accordingly entitled to a remission of the premium interest.
For the reasons advanced above we are satisfied that there are no demonstrated errors of law with respect to the first two grounds. For the reason that leave to extend the appeal to the merits was granted (albeit for Ground 3) we must now decide, in respect of all grounds, what is the correct and preferable decision: Molyneux at [57]. 
The Deed of Trust was properly liable to duty under s 8(3) of the Duties Act as a declaration of trust over identified property (the Property) to be vested in the Trustee for the purposes set out in the Trust Deed. However, we find with respect to Ground 3 that there was an error of law: there was a basis for the remission of the premium component of interest, which was not taken into account by the Tribunal at first instance.
The Decision is affirmed in part: (a) The order at [37] of the Decision is affirmed. The Deed of Trust constitutes a declaration of Trust in accordance with s 8(3) of the Duties Act. (b) The order at [38] of the Decision is set aside. 
############# I'm default separator ##########12
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - Appeal Panel- appeal from CTTT - retail lease - application for appointmentof specialistretail valuer - whether parties had already agreed on current market rent -estoppel - whether rules of natural justiceobserved
The decision under appeal ('the Tribunal's decision') was given in the Retail Leases Division of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal ('the Tribunal') on 26 November 2013. It is reported as City Convenience Leasing Pty Ltd v Boo [2013] NSWADT 268. 
In this decision, the Tribunal, constituted by Deputy President Callaghan, dismissed an Application for Original Decision ('the Application') that the Applicant, City Convenience Leasing Pty Ltd, had filed. The order sought was that the Tribunal should appoint a specialist retail valuer pursuant to section 19(1)(b) of the Retail Leases Act 1994
The Tribunal reserved the question of costs, but gave directions for the filing of submissions on this matter.
On 6 December 2013, the Respondents, who are Akau Boo, Vinh Quang Tran and Kim Chau Tran, filed an application for costs, with supporting submissions
On 9 December 2013, the Applicant filed a notice of appeal against the Tribunal's decision. On 30 December 2013, it filed submissions responding to the Respondents' application for costs.
On 1 January 2014, the Tribunal was abolished and its functions were taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales ('NCAT'). The appeal proceedings thereupon became 'unheard proceedings' as defined in clause 6(1) of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013. Clauses 7(1) and 7(3)(b) of this Schedule stipulate that such proceedings are to be heard by NCAT but determined as if that Act had not been enacted. 
On 20 January 2014, Principal Member Chesterman heard and dismissed an application by the Applicant for interlocutory orders that would have had the effect of staying the operation of the Tribunal's decision. He reserved the question of costs and gave directions for the filing of submissions before the hearing of the appeal itself.
This hearing took place before us on 17 March 2014. Mr H Soltan represented the Applicant as its agent. Mr C Ireland of counsel appeared for the Respondents.
Near the commencement of the hearing, Mr Soltan applied for leave to call a witness to give further evidence. We rejected this application. The grounds on which it was made and our reasons for rejecting it are outlined below.
At the end of the hearing, we stated that we would reserve our decision. We also indicated that after we had delivered it, the question of costs at first instance and on appeal would be determined on the basis of written submissions.
On 24 August 2006, the Respondents granted to the Applicant a lease ('the Lease') relating to convenience store premises ('the Premises') on the ground floor of 19-21 Hunter Street, Sydney. The original term of the Lease was seven years commencing on 18 August 2006 and expiring on 17 August 2013. It contained an option to renew for a further term of seven years. It is common ground that the Lease is governed by the RL Act.
The Lease fixed an initial rent of $285,000 per year exclusive of GST, payable in monthly instalments of $23,750 plus GST. It also provided, in items 13.A and 16 of the schedule, for rent review to take the form of a 5% annual increase on '18/08/2007 and each anniversary of that date - other than 18/08/2012'. With respect to 18/08/2012, it stated that the method of rent review was to be 'current market rent'. It further provided in item 13.A that if the option to renew were exercised, the rent during the first year of the new lease would be the amount of rent payable in the final year of the Lease increased by 5%.
A number of provisions of clause 5 are relevant. Clause 5.4 stated that the rent was to be reviewed on the rent review dates stated in item 16 of the schedule. Clauses 5.6 to 5.11 set out three alternative methods for fixing the 'new rent': by a fixed amount or percentage, by reference to the Consumer Price Index and by reference to current market rent. Clause 5.12 set out a definition of current market rent for the purposes of the Lease. 
The following further provisions within clause 5 should be set out in full:-
The procedure stipulated in these provisions was not implemented at any stage.
During September and October 2012, the Applicant was in arrears in its payments of rent. As at 1 October, the amount outstanding was $169,085.22. In consequence, an agreement for the payment of rent and arrears by the Applicant ('the Payment Plan Agreement') was made between the parties. Its terms were negotiated in discussions and emails between Mr Robert Condell of Tim Green Commercial, the Respondents' managing agents ('TGC'), and Mr Mark Richerdson, the Business Development Manager for the Applicant. 
These terms were set out in an email sent on 16 October 2012 by Mr Condell to Mr Richerdson. They commenced as follows:-
The 'plan' referred to in that email was headed as follows:
The plan comprised a tabulated summary of payments required and balances owing, covering the period from October 2012 to February 2013. At the top, it indicated that the monthly rent due from the Applicant was $31,827.27 plus GST at $3,182.73, giving a total of $35,010. It stipulated that the Applicant should make monthly payments ranging from $40,000 (in October 2012) to $63,200.45 (in February 2013). It also stipulated that MK Natural Therapy Pty Ltd, which was a sublessee of part of the Premises, should make monthly payments to the Respondents of its agreed rent ($13, 566.66 inclusive of GST). It showed that if these payments were duly made, the arrears would be fully paid off in February 2013.
In an email to Mr Condell on 24 October 2012, Mr Richerdson wrote: 'We accept the payment proposal outlined in the attachments and email correspondence below.'
As already stated, the Application filed in these proceedings was for the appointment, pursuant to section 19(1)(b) of the RL Act, of a specialist retail valuer to determine the 'current market rent' under the Lease. The principal question to be determined by the Tribunal was whether the Respondents could validly object to such an appointment on the ground that the Payment Plan Agreement included an agreement between the parties as to the amount of that rent.
The evidence relating to this question included a number of documents headed 'Tax Invoice/Statement' that TGC had prepared. These showed debits to the Applicant for rent at $30,311.68 for the first day of each month from April to August 2012; a debit of $695.68 on 18 August 2012; and debits of $31,827.27 from 1 September 2012 to 1 October 2013. Amounts due for GST were shown separately. As at 16 October 2012, the balance due (inclusive of GST) was shown to be $185,993.75. 
The amount shown in these invoices and statements as rent from 1 September 2012 onwards, $31,827.27, equates to $30,311.68 plus a 5% increase. The Tribunal agreed with Mr Soltan that the invoiced amount of $695.68 would constitute 5% of the rent charged earlier in 2012, with respect to the period of 14 days inclusive from 18 August 2012 - which as already indicated was a rent review date stipulated in the Lease - to 31 August 2012.
The remaining evidence admitted by the Tribunal chiefly comprised witness statements by four witnesses. None of them was required for cross-examination.
One of the Applicant's witnesses was Mr Jamal Gebara. In the Tribunal's decision at [13], relevant parts of his statement were summarised as follows:- 
There was also a witness statement from Mr Richerdson. The Tribunal's decision recorded (at [10]) that in it he confirmed his acceptance of the Payment Plan Agreement on behalf of the Applicant. The decision then reproduced the following extract from it:-
We would add that in this statement Mr Richerdson also indicated that at all times he was required to obtain instructions from Mr Gebara.
At [12], the Tribunal's decision outlined the contents of two witness statements made by the Second Respondent, Vinh Guang Tran. The following passage from this outline is relevant in the present context:-
This notice was in the following terms: 'NOTICE is hereby given by the Lessee to the Lessor that the Lessee hereby irrevocably exercises the option to renew the Lease over the Premises.' It was signed by Mr Richerdson beside a statement indicating that the notice was 'executed by' the Applicant 'in accordance with section 127 of the Companies Act 2001'.
We would add that at the time of exercise of the option, 15 April 2013, the Tax Invoice/Statement relating to the Lease showed that the Applicant had paid off all the earlier arrears. One of the factors contributing to this was that on 1 March 2013, the Respondents had drawn down on the Applicant's bank guarantee, thereby receiving the sum of $71,250. In addition, the Applicant had made a payment of $46,863.36 on 28 March 2013, which the Tax Invoice/Statement described as 'Owed rent paid after demand'. 
At [10], the Tribunal's decision noted that the Respondents' agent, Mr Condell, did not give evidence, with the result that 'the only material from him before the Tribunal is documentation to which he was a party'.
At [14], the decision summarised evidence given by Mr Soltan, who has represented the Applicant in these proceedings:-
The Application instituting the proceedings in the Tribunal was filed on 16 August 2013, one day before the date of expiry of the Lease.
Before the grounds of the Tribunal's decision are outlined, it is useful to reproduce the provisions of the RL Act that are of particular importance in this case. They are section 7, subsections (1) and (1A) of section 19 and section 32(1):-
The Tribunal's decision was structured around four 'propounded reasons' that the Respondents advanced as independent grounds, each of them sufficient, for rejecting the Applicant's application for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer. Having outlined these reasons at [4], the Tribunal observed at [6] that counsel for the Respondents relied principally on the second and fourth of them. It proceeded therefore to discuss these two reasons first. We will do likewise.
At [4], the Tribunal formulated the second 'propounded reason' as follows: '[T]he evidence confirms that there has been an agreement as to the actual amount of rent paid over the last year of the Lease as at $31,827.27 per month.' 
The Tribunal indicated at [16] that its acceptance of this argument stemmed from it having made the following two findings on the balance of probabilities:-
In its discussion of the second 'propounded reason', however, the Tribunal reached the conclusion that in the Payment Plan the parties agreed not only that the 'actual amount of rent' to be paid during the last year was $31,827.27 per month, but also that this was 'effectively' the 'agreed current market rent'. This conclusion involved rejection of an important contention advanced by the Applicant, which the Tribunal had summarised as follows at [6]:-
In reaching this conclusion, the Tribunal relied on three separate lines of reasoning. It described the conclusion as (i) 'part of the inferred intention in the agreement'; (ii) a term that would be 'appropriate to be implied in the payment plan agreement'; and (iii) arising from a 'supplementary agreement' between the parties.
At [17], the Tribunal gave the following explanation of its finding of an 'inferred intention':-
At [18], the Tribunal sought to support this explanation by quoting from the judgment of Allsop P in Franklins Pty Ltd v Metcash Ltd [2009] NSWCA 407;  (2009) 76 NSWLR 603 at  [19]. In this paragraph, the President emphasised the need to give to commercial contracts a 'businesslike interpretation' and to avoid interpreting them 'pedantically or in a manner prone to defeat the evident commercial purpose'. 
Also reproduced at [18] was an extract from the judgment of the High Court in Toll (FGCT) Pty Ltd v Alphapharm Pty Ltd (2004) 219 CLR 165 at [40], in which, as the Tribunal expressed it, the Court 'affirmed the principle of objectivity by which the rights and liabilities of the parties to a contract are determined'. This passage is as follows:-
Paragraph [18] of the Tribunal's decision concluded as follows:-
At [19], the Tribunal gave the following reasons for its alternative finding of an implied term to the effect that a monthly rental of $31,827.27 was the current market rent:-
The concept of a 'supplementary agreement' as used by the Tribunal and the grounds on which it found that an agreement of this nature came into being were explained as follows at [16] and [20]:-
At [20], the Tribunal also quoted the following passage from the judgment of Allsop J (as he then was) in Branir Pty Ltd v Owston Nominees (No 2) Pty Ltd (2001) 117 FCR 429 at [369]:-
At [21 - 24], the Tribunal set out four additional rulings, responding in each case to arguments that Mr Soltan had put to it. These rulings were as follows.
First, Mr Richerdson had both actual and ostensible authority from the Applicant to enter into an agreement concerning market rent.
Secondly, such an agreement was not contrary to the provisions of section 19(1) of the RL Act, which by virtue of section 7 overrode any contrary stipulation in the Lease. Equally, it did not 'negate the Applicant's right' to apply for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer to determine the current market rent. The reason for this was that section 19(1)(b) expressly contemplated that the parties might agree 'as to what the actual amount of that rent is to be'.
Thirdly, the payment plan agreement fell within the first of the three categories of putative contract described by the High Court in the well-known case of Masters v Cameron [1954] HCA 72;  (1954) 91 CLR 353. It was, to quote from this case at 360, 'one in which the parties have reached finality in arranging all the terms of their bargain and intend to be immediately bound to the performance of those terms, but at the same time propose to have the terms restated in a form which will be fuller or more precise but not different in effect'. Contrary to Mr Soltan's submission, it was not in the third category of putative contract, namely, 'one in which the intention of the parties is not to make a concluded bargain at all, unless and until they execute a formal contract'. The Tribunal observed as follows at the end of paragraph [23]: 'The parties carried the payment plan agreement into execution for the 2012-2013 lease year and it is not now to the point that a formal version of the agreement was not produced.'
Fourthly, it was irrelevant that the parties did not implement at any stage the procedure stipulated in clauses 15.13 to 15.15 (quoted at [14] above) for determining the current market rent.
Having decided, by virtue of the foregoing considerations, that the second of the Respondents' four 'propounded reasons' should be upheld, the Tribunal pointed out that strictly it did not need to deal with the fourth of these reasons. It stated that it would however do this, 'out of caution'.
As formulated at [4], the fourth 'propounded reason' was as follows: 'the Lessee is estopped from seeking the appointment of a specialist valuer having agreed as to the rent and actually paid rent at the agreed rate over the final year of the lease.'
The Tribunal held that an estoppel did arise, but not to the extent claimed by the Respondents. Its ruling (at [25]) was instead that 'the Applicant is estopped from disputing that there was an agreement of $31,827.27 per month as the rate of rent for the 2012-2013 lease year and as the relevant current market rent'. 
At [26], the Tribunal rejected a submission by Mr Soltan that the claimed estoppel would be 'against the exercise of a statutory right' (i.e. the right to have current market rent determined by a specialist valuer) and was therefore 'impermissible'. This submission, it said, was incorrect because section 19(1)(b) contemplated that the parties might agree on the amount of 'current market rent' and indicated that if this occurred the occasion for a valuer to be appointed pursuant to an application under section 19(1A) did not arise. The Tribunal then gave reasons for distinguishing a case, Molotu Pty Ltd v Solar Power Pty Ltd (1989) NSW ConvR 55-490, on which Mr Soltan had relied.
At [27 - 28], the Tribunal set out the following reasons for upholding the Respondents' claim of an estoppel:-
The Tribunal outlined and discussed the first of the Respondents' 'propounded reasons' at [30]:-
In view of these observations (particularly the penultimate sentence), the Tribunal's conclusion, stated at [33], that the first (as well as the second and the fourth) of the 'propounded reasons' had been established is somewhat surprising. In paragraph [30], the Tribunal appears instead to have decided that a retrospective determination of current market rent by a valuer appointed under section 19(1)(b) is in fact permissible under section 19, but that this principle was of no avail to the Applicant.
The Tribunal outlined the third of the 'propounded reasons', together with the grounds on which it rejected this reason, at [31]:-
The Tribunal then stated that by virtue of its agreement with all but the third of the Respondents' four 'propounded reasons', it should uphold their objection to the Application and dismiss the Applicant's claim for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer.
Before examining the grounds on which Mr Soltan challenged the Tribunal's decision, we will describe his application for leave to call a further witness and the reasons why we rejected it.
The witness in question was Mr Condell. He had not supplied any evidence to the Tribunal. Mr Soltan submitted that evidence of the circumstances surrounding the making of the Payment Plan Agreement was or might be relevant in order to resolve any ambiguity in its terms. For this reason, he claimed, Mr Condell's testimony as to his knowledge of the terms of the Lease and as to whether he believed that the rent stipulated in the Agreement was intended to be the current market rent was significant and should be admitted.
We rejected this application for the following reasons (some of which Mr Ireland put before us): (a) because Mr Condell was not one of the Respondents, and was only their agent in making the Payment Plan Agreement, evidence as to his knowledge and intentions with regard to it was irrelevant; (b) by virtue of authorities such as Toll (FGCT) Pty Ltd v Alphapharm Pty Ltd (2004) 219 CLR 165, including particularly the passage at [40] quoted by the Tribunal, even the 'subjective beliefs or understandings of the parties about their rights and liabilities' do not 'govern their contractual relations'; and (c) it would be unfair and prejudicial to the Respondents to permit the Applicant to adduce this evidence, since they would have no opportunity to put on any evidence in reply. 
The arguments advanced by Mr Soltan in his written and oral submissions relating to the appeal itself derived from four separate sources: (a) certain provisions of the RL Act; (b) principles of contract law; (c) principles relating to estoppel; and (d) the rules of natural justice. It is convenient to examine them under these four heads, indicating in each case the substance of his arguments, Mr Ireland's responses to them and our decisions in relation to them.
Mr Soltan pointed out that the overriding status accorded to this Act by section 7, which we have reproduced above at [34], expressly operated not only with regard to the terms of any retail shop lease but also with regard to 'any agreement or arrangement between the parties to a lease... to the extent that the provision would be void if it were in the lease'.
It followed, he said, that any purported 'agreement or arrangement' as to the amount of the current market rent for the Premises that might be discernible within the Payment Plan Agreement would be void to the extent that it was inconsistent with the terms of section 19(1) of the Act (also reproduced above at [34]). He claimed that two such inconsistencies existed.
The first was that the Agreement, according to the interpretation urged by the Respondents, purported to determine the current market rent for a period before it was entered into, commencing on the relevant rent review date (18 August 2012), but section 19(1)(b) stipulated that if the parties did not agree before this date as to the amount of such rent, it had perforce to be determined by a specialist retail valuer. 
In so arguing, Mr Soltan submitted that section 19(1)(b) imposed the requirement of determination by a specialist retail valuer in every case in which the parties to the lease had not agreed in advance - i.e., before the rental review date - as to what the current market rate should be. This followed particularly, he said, from the use of the words 'is to be' in the provision. Any agreement or arrangement regarding this amount that the parties might reach after the date when current market rent was payable under the lease would be void under section 7. 
Mr Soltan sought to support this argument by pointing out that in a comparable provision of the RL Act, section 32(1), the phrase 'what the actual amount of that rent is to be' in paragraph (a) denotes the subject matter of an agreement between lessor and lessee which must 'already' have been made.
In our opinion, the interpretation of section 19(1)(b) urged by Mr Soltan is one that the terms of this provision permit. But it is not an interpretation that these terms require. The time at which it must be apparent that the lessor and lessee 'do not agree' is not specified. The words 'is to be' may be construed as meaning 'will be', but may also be taken to mean 'must be' or 'should be'.
Mr Ireland submitted that the argument made by Mr Soltan, if accepted, would have highly detrimental consequences for the operation of retail leases. It would produce an outcome that was both 'entirely non-purposive' and contrary to the 'plain intention' of section 29(1)(b) that parties should be able to 'sort the matter out consensually and by agreement if they can'. 
Mr Ireland also drew our attention to the Note at the end of section 19(1). This states: 'The procedure provided by this section can be avoided if the parties can come to an agreement as to what the rent is to be.'
A further argument put by Mr Ireland was that the Tribunal's decision in Alma Constructions Pty Ltd v C. D. Management Group Pty Ltd  [2008] NSWADT 3 provided authority (notably at [36]) for the proposition that despite section 19(1)(b) an agreement as to current market rent may be made after the rent review date has passed. 
This case concerned the ascertainment of current market rent that became payable on the exercise of an option to renew a retail shop lease. The lease contained provisions on this topic, including the following three clauses:-
The date of expiry of the lease was 30 June 2007. On 18 May 2007, which was both after the option had been exercised and less than 60 days before the 'rent review date', the applicant lessor wrote to the respondent purporting to determine the rent that would be payable. Because the respondent disputed this amount, correspondence between them continued for about six weeks. In its final letter, written on 30 July 2007 (i.e., after the new lease had commenced), the applicant maintained that they had not reached agreement as to the new rent. 
One week before sending this letter, the applicant had applied to the Tribunal for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer under section 31(1)(b) of the RL Act. The respondent objected to this appointment on the ground that agreement as to the rent had been reached.
Subsections (1) and (1A) of section 31 of the RL Act are in the same terms as subsections (1) and (1A) of section 19, with the important exception that the former provisions apply in cases involving a retail shop lease 'that provides an option to renew or extend the lease at current market rent'.
The Tribunal upheld the applicant's contention that in the correspondence that had taken place the parties had not reached agreement as to the rent and dismissed the respondent's objection to the appointment of a valuer. 
The following passages in the decision (at paragraphs [4], [5], [33], [34] and [36]) are relevant to the present appeal:-
We agree with these submissions made on the Respondents' behalf and would add only three comments. 
The first is that the interpretation for which Mr Soltan argued would produce the outcome that if the parties to a lease endeavoured strenuously to reach an agreement as to the current market rent before the contractual deadline (i.e. the rent review date) but did not succeed until one day after this deadline had passed, neither of them could treat their agreement as binding and the only safe course of action for them would be to seek a determination by a valuer. This is a highly inconvenient, if not absurd, outcome.
Secondly, Mr Soltan's argument based on the words 'is to be' in sections 19(1)(b) and 31(1)(b) (which are in identical terms) was not put to the Tribunal in the Alma Constructions case. But the dicta that we have quoted, notably from paragraph [36], indicate that this argument would not have found favour. The sweeping statement in this paragraph that 'the parties to a retail lease can always reach agreement' is enough to demonstrate this. Furthermore, the Tribunal's reasons show manifestly that if it had discerned an agreement as to the amount of current market rent in the correspondence between the parties, it would have declared this amount to be the rent payable under the new lease and upheld the respondent's objection, even though this correspondence commenced after both the 'rent review date' stipulated in the lease and the date of exercise of the option and continued into the period of the new lease.
Thirdly, the Note at the end of section 19(1), while not part of the text of the statute, may be taken into account as an aid to construction in the circumstances outlined in section 34 of the Interpretation Act 1987
Like the Tribunal, we consider that this ruling by us is sufficient to dispose of a further contention raised in the Notice of Appeal but not developed in Mr Soltan's submissions. This was that the Tribunal's finding of an estoppel against the Applicant was incorrect, on the ground that it 'stood in the face' of the Applicant's right to apply under section 19(1)(b) for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer. It is sufficient for us here to refer to the reasoning of the Tribunal on this matter, which we have summarised above at [55].
According to Mr Soltan, the second inconsistency between section 19(1) of the RL Act and the Payment Plan Agreement was that the alleged agreement within it as to the current market rent did not satisfy two aspects of the definition of 'current market rent' in section 19(1)(a). 
The first of these was that this agreement as to rent was not made between parties 'acting knowledgeably'. This was the case because at the relevant time Mr Richerdson was not aware of the rent review clause in the Lease and it should be presumed, on account of the Respondents' failure to call Mr Condell, that he was also not aware of this clause. 
In addition, Mr Soltan argued, any such agreement was not made 'without compulsion', because the Applicant was facing the prospect of eviction on the ground of unpaid rent. It accordingly had little choice but to accept all the terms of the Agreement.
In our opinion, there are two answers to this line of argument. The first and most important is that the terms of section 19(1), as we understand them, do not require the parties, when reaching an agreement as to the amount of the current market rent, to apply the criteria for ascertaining this amount that are set out in paragraph (a). These criteria are only applicable when the procedure for determination by a specialist retail valuer has been invoked. The reference in paragraph (a) to the rent being 'determined' on an effective rent basis makes this clear. 
Secondly, there was, as Mr Ireland argued, no evidence before the Tribunal or before us that would warrant a finding that the parties to the Lease (as opposed to their agents) were not 'knowledgeable', or that the Applicant agreed to the Payment Plan Agreement under duress or compulsion.
For the foregoing reasons, we reject the arguments made by Mr Soltan in reliance on the overriding impact of section 7 of the RL Act and the terms of section 19(1) of that Act.
Mr Soltan submitted that the Tribunal made a number of errors in its application of principles of contract law. They related, he claimed, to its treatment of the Payment Plan Agreement as binding on the parties and to its decision that the rent stated in this Agreement was agreed by the parties to be the current market rent. We will deal with these two subject-matters separately.
Whether the Payment Plan Agreement was binding. Mr Soltan submitted that despite the apparent acceptance by the Applicant of the terms of this Agreement (as evidenced in Mr Richerdson's email to Mr Condell dated 24 October 2012), it was in fact not binding on the parties, by virtue of the failure of either or both of two conditions subsequent contained in it.
The first of these conditions derived, he said, from Mr Condell's statement in his email of 16 October 2012 to Mr Richerdson that he had 'discussed this proposal with the owners and they will only agree to this payment plan if it is strictly adhered to'. According to Mr Soltan, this statement incorporated into the Agreement a condition of 'strict adherence' with which the Applicant did not comply. Its non-compliance took the form of failing to make the payments of current arrears stipulated in the Payment Plan, with the consequence that as late as March 2013 the Respondents drew down on its bank guarantee, thereby receiving the sum of $71,250. 
We are singularly unimpressed by this argument. It appears to imply that so long as the Applicant maintained the payments required by the Plan it would be bound by the Agreement, but as soon as it defaulted it would no longer be bound. Furthermore, to interpret this statement in Mr Condell's email as designed to import a condition subsequent into the proposed Agreement is to misunderstand its role completely. The message from the Respondents that this statement was intended to convey was simply that they would be likely to enforce strictly the rights reserved to them under the Lease if the Applicant defaulted in making the required payments.
The second condition subsequent that Mr Soltan claimed to have been present in the Agreement derived from the last sentence in Mr Condell's email of 16 October 2012. This was as follows: 'If we can reach an arrangement, I will draft a more formal agreement for you to agree to.' Mr Soltan submitted that this constituted a condition subsequent, which was not satisfied because neither Mr Condell nor anyone else on behalf of the Respondents sent a 'more formal agreement' to the Applicant for it to 'agree to'.
In this context, Mr Soltan invoked the authority of the well-known High Court case of Masters v Cameron [1954] HCA 72;  (1954) 91 CLR 353, arguing that the Payment Plan Agreement fell into the third category of putative contracts outlined in this decision, not (as the Tribunal had held) in the first category.
The passages in Masters v Cameron on which he relied were paragraphs [9] to [12], [19] and [20] (at pp 360-363 and 366-367 of the report):-
Relying in particular on the last two paragraphs, Mr Soltan argued that the Tribunal erred in stating that acts appearing to constitute partial performance of an alleged agreement may point towards the conclusion that it falls within the first of the Masters v Cameron categories. He quoted the following sentence of the Tribunal's decision at [23]: 'The parties carried the payment plan agreement into execution for the 2012-2013 lease year and it is not now to the point that a formal version of the agreement was not produced.'
A further submission of Mr Soltan was that the Tribunal also erred (again at [23]) in stating that the Applicant's submission based on Masters v Cameron was 'contrary to Mr Soltan's position (and Mr Richerdson's) to the effect that while there is a dispute as to its extent, an agreement was made in respect of the payment plan'. He maintained that the Tribunal should instead have assessed the intention of the 'proponent' of the Agreement, Mr Condell, on the basis of the words that Mr Condell used.
Mr Ireland's arguments in response to these contentions were that the Tribunal's analysis of this issue disclosed no error and that we should take account of two passages in the transcript of the Tribunal hearing on 4 November 2013. In the first of these (p 2, line 49, to p 3, line 15), Mr Soltan conceded, 'just to make everybody comfortable', that his client 'agreed to the payment plan', and repeated this concession when asked by DP Callaghan to make his position clear. At the end of the second passage (p 17, lines 38 to 50), DP Callaghan referred to this concession immediately after Mr Ireland had made the submission that Mr Richerdson, in his witness statement, acknowledged his acceptance of the Agreement. 
On this question, our interpretation of the correspondence constituting the Payment Plan Agreement accords with that of the Tribunal. The statement by Mr Condell on which Mr Soltan relied must be considered alongside the accompanying Payment Plan, which specified in detail the times and amounts of the payments expected to be made by the Applicant and the effect that these payments would have over five months in reducing the arrears of rent. It is significant also that the date of commencement of the Plan was specified as 1 October 2012, eleven days earlier than the email containing Mr Condell's statement. This is another factor suggesting that the parties intended the Agreement to be binding on them as soon as the Applicant's acceptance was communicated to the Respondents or their agent.
Applying the principles stated in the passages that we have quoted from Masters v Cameron, we are accordingly satisfied that the Tribunal did not err in its classification of the Agreement. The fact that Mr Soltan made a concession during the Tribunal hearing in line with this classification supports this conclusion, but we would have arrived at it in any event.
Whether the parties reached agreement as to the current market rent. In his submissions, Mr Soltan challenged each of the grounds on which the Tribunal decided that the rent stated in the Payment Plan Agreement was agreed by the parties to be the current market rent. He argued that the Tribunal erred in basing this decision on each of the following alternative grounds: (a) the express terms of the Agreement; (b) the 'inferred intention' of the parties; (c) an implied term; and (d) a 'supplementary agreement'. We will discuss each of these four alleged errors separately.
The express terms of the Agreement. Citing paragraph [34] (which we have reproduced above at [79]) of the decision in Alma Constructions Pty Ltd v C. D. Management Group Pty Ltd  [2008] NSWADT 3, Mr Soltan argued that in the Payment Plan Agreement there was no express agreement as to the current market rent because there was no 'meeting of the minds' of Mr Condell and Mr Richerdson. He added that the Tribunal itself recognised at [17] that a term of this nature was 'not explicit, at least in those actual words'. The Tribunal in fact pointed out that the Agreement did not set out monthly rent payments for the whole of the final year of the Lease or use the phrase 'current market rent'. Since this particular aspect of the Agreement was 'unambiguous', he maintained, the Tribunal should not have taken into account the 'surrounding circumstances' of the Agreement, or the context in which it was made, or the subsequent conduct of the parties. 
In the alternative, Mr Soltan argued that if we agreed with the Tribunal's statement (at [18]) that the Agreement was in fact ambiguous and for that reason considered it appropriate to take surrounding circumstances into account, we should still conclude that there was no agreement that the rent stipulated was the current market rent. This was for the following reasons: (a) Mr Richerdson testified that when conveying acceptance of the Payment Plan Agreement, he did not regard it as dealing with the current market rent; (b) the Respondents did not call Mr Condell as a witness; (c) we should therefore infer, as the Tribunal should have done, that he too would have said that he did not believe the Agreement to be concerned with current market rent.
In response, Mr Ireland argued that at the time when the Applicant accepted the terms of the Payment Plan Agreement, the officers and agents acting on its behalf must be taken to have been aware of the relevant provisions of the Lease, including particularly clause 15. Accordingly, it was irrelevant that one such agent, Mr Richerdson, testified that he was not aware of them. In support of this proposition, Mr Ireland cited a statement by Young CJ in Eq in Zucker v Straightlace Pty Ltd  (1986) 11 NSWLR 87 and the High Court's decision in Toll (FGCT) Pty Ltd v Alphapharm Pty Ltd (2004) 219 CLR 165.
In Zucker, the statement (at pp 92-93) is as follows: 'It is also quite clear that where a purchaser's right to rescind depends upon contract that (sic), as a person is deemed to know what is in the contract he himself made, knowledge of a fact which the contract permits as the basis of rescission is sufficient without a realisation by the person that that right exists.'
In Toll, Mr Ireland relied particularly on paragraphs [45] and [46] of the joint judgment of the Court. It is sufficient here to quote the following extracts from these paragraphs:-
Mr Ireland also relied on what the High Court in Toll (at [40]) called 'the principle of objectivity by which the rights and liabilities of the parties to a contract are determined'. He drew to our attention the Court's reaffirmation of this principle in a decision, Electricity Generation Corporation v Woodside Energy Ltd [2014] HCA 7, delivered as recently as 5 March 2014. At paragraph [35] of that decision, the Court said (footnotes are omitted):-
By virtue of this principle, he submitted, the 'surrounding circumstances' that could properly be taken into account in construing any ambiguities in the Payment Plan Agreement would not include Mr Richerdson's subjective knowledge or intentions (or indeed those of Mr Condell) at the time when the Plan was agreed on. The fact that these individuals were agents of the parties, not the parties themselves, provided additional support for this proposition.
In our opinion, one important and indeed obvious aspect of the situation existing during the period when the Payment Plan Agreement was proposed by the Respondents' agent and accepted by the Applicant's agent was not sufficiently emphasised in the Tribunal's decision or the parties' submissions. It is that this Agreement does not stand alone. It does not make legal or commercial sense unless it is read in conjunction with the Lease. 
Accordingly, there is a strong case for concluding that the appearance of the amount $31,827.27 beside the phrase 'Rental amounts' in the Payment Plan, when considered alongside Items 13.A and 16 and clause 5 of the Lease, signified that although neither of the parties had utilised the procedure for determining current market rent set out in clauses 5.13 to 5.15, the Respondents were now proposing this figure of $31,827.27 as the 'current market rent', payable throughout the final year of the Lease. If the monthly rent stated had been the same as was payable during the preceding year (18 August 2011 to 17 August 2012), this interpretation would not be available. But the proposed rental incorporated a 5% increase.
Applying the criteria stated in the passage in Electricity Generation that we have just reproduced, we therefore see considerable merit in the view that a 'reasonable businessperson' would have attributed this meaning to the Payment Plan's stipulation of an increased rental, considered side by side with the relevant parts of the Lease. This is the case irrespective of whether the provisions of the Agreement under consideration should be characterised as ambiguous (which we believe to be the correct view) or unambiguous. 
It was of course open to Mr Richerdson, whether acting on his own initiative or under instructions from Mr Gebara, to claim that this figure of $31,827.27 did not represent current market rent and therefore did not have to be accepted by the Applicant. But Mr Richerdson did not do this. In his email response to Mr Condell, he simply accepted the 'payment proposal' unconditionally. It is strongly arguable that the 'reasonable businessperson' would be likely to infer from this that on behalf of the Applicant he agreed that this figure should be taken to represent current market rent and was therefore payable pursuant to items 13.A and 16 and clause 5 of the Lease.
Having regard to the High Court's firm adherence to the principle of objectivity in interpreting contracts, the evidence indicating or suggesting that Mr Richerdson (and possibly also Mr Gebara: see the last paragraph of the Tribunal's summary of his evidence, quoted above at [25]) had forgotten, or were never aware of, the role played by current market rent in the Lease must be regarded as irrelevant. The same must be said of any inference, such as Mr Soltan invited us to draw, of ignorance of these matters on the part of the Respondents' agent. There was no evidence at all as to whether any of the Respondents themselves were aware at any time of this aspect of the Lease.
The foregoing conclusions on this quite difficult question of interpretation are put forward only as more likely to be correct than the opposing position advanced by Mr Soltan - i.e. that because the Payment Plan Agreement made no reference to current market rent, the parties to it agreed only that the rent stipulated in it should be paid 'on account' until the current market rent, being the rent properly payable, had been agreed upon or determined by a valuer. We do not present these conclusions as the final basis on which we have decided this appeal because, for reasons explained below, we are clearly satisfied as to the correctness of a further ground on which the Tribunal found in favour of the Respondents.
An 'inferred intention'. We have singled out this element of the Tribunal's decision as a matter requiring separate attention, even though the 'inferring' of the parties' 'intention' appears to us to be closely linked with the process of construing the express terms of an agreement. The principal reason why we treat this topic separately is that Mr Soltan advanced submissions specifically addressing it.
His challenge to this aspect of the Tribunal's reasoning was based in part on the fact that relevant passages in the case on which the Tribunal chiefly relied at this point, Franklins Pty Ltd v Metcash Trading Ltd  (2009) 76 NSWLR 603;  [2009] NSWCA 407, had been criticised to some extent in subsequent decisions.
Any doubts on this matter must, however, be regarded as resolved by the High Court in Electricity Generation Corporation v Woodside Energy Ltd [2014] HCA 7. For present purposes, the Court's statement of principle at [35], quoted above at [109], does not differ materially from the passage (at [19]) that the Tribunal quoted from the Franklins decision.
Mr Soltan argued also that the Tribunal 'erroneously misapplied' to the facts of the present case two phrases that appear in more or less identical form in both Franklins and Electricity Generation: namely, 'the commercial purposes of the transaction' and 'the genesis of the transaction, the background, the context [and] the market in which the parties are operating'.
With respect to these matters he made the following submissions: (a) the genesis of the Payment Plan Agreement was the existence of substantial arrears of rent; (b) its commercial purpose was to deal with these arrears; (c) its background included (i) the incorrect invoicing of rent, 'automatically' increased by 5% since 18 August 2012, by the Respondent's agent, (ii) the failure of both parties to invoke the rent review provisions of the lease and (iii) the absence of any evidence of knowledge of these provisions by the parties' agents; and (d) the context and market in which the parties operated included a standard practice among commercial managing agents of advising lessees just before or after a rent review date of the amount at which the lessor had assessed the current market rent.
According to Mr Soltan, the Tribunal erred in failing to take these matters into account when determining the 'inferred intention' of the parties. 
In support of his arguments on this topic, Mr Soltan cited two paragraphs, [2-40] and [2-44] of Carter, The Construction of Commercial Contracts.
It is true that the Tribunal did not describe as 'automatic' the 5% increase in the rent occurring under the Payment Plan Agreement. Mr Soltan suggested to us that it was in fact generated 'automatically' by a computer in TGC's office. But there is no evidence that this is how it occurred.
It is true also that the Tribunal did not refer to what he claimed to be a 'standard practice' among commercial managing agents. We do not believe, however, that the existence of any such practice is necessarily a relevant factor in determining the particular question of construction that we are now considering.
Contrary to Mr Soltan's submission, the Tribunal did refer in its decision to all the other matters that we have listed at [121]. There is no reason to believe that it did not also take them into consideration when applying the principles that it quoted from Franklins v Metcash.
As we pointed out to Mr Soltan during the hearing, the two paragraphs from Carter, The Construction of Commercial Contracts, that he drew to our attention do not relate to 'inferred intention' in determining the meaning of contractual terms. Instead, they relate respectively to the question whether a pre-contractual statement forms part of the contract and to the classification of terms as conditions or warranties.
For these reasons, we reject Mr Soltan's challenge to the Tribunal's decision in so far as it invoked the concept of 'inferred intention'. 
An implied term. Mr Soltan argued that the Tribunal erred at [19] in deciding that a term should be implied in the Payment Plan Agreement to the effect that the rent stated in it was the current market rent. He maintained that none of the requirements for such a term that the High Court outlined in the case cited by the Tribunal, B.P. Refinery (Westernport) Pty Ltd v Hastings Shire Council [1977] HCA 40;  (1977) 52 ALJR 20, was in fact satisfied.
The specific points that he made in his written submissions about a term to this effect were as follows:- 
Mr Ireland did not address the question of an implied term to any significant extent.
In our opinion, the first of these five contentions is not made out and the third and fourth appear to be based on misunderstandings of the criteria stated by the High Court. But there is merit in the second and fifth contentions. The Agreement would not have lacked 'business efficacy' simply because it did not purport to resolve the question of current market rent and, on the face of it at least, the suggested implied term did contradict an express term of a contract (the Lease) which we have held to be closely associated with the Agreement.
For these reasons, we incline to the view that the Tribunal's ruling that an implied term arose within the Agreement was subject to error. As the Tribunal pointed out, however, this ruling was not essential to its decision in favour of the Respondents.
A 'supplementary agreement'. In his written submissions, Mr Soltan argued that the Tribunal erroneously applied the passage that it quoted from Branir Pty Ltd v Owston Nominees (No 2) Pty Ltd (2001) 117 FCR 429 (we have quoted this passage above at [46]), for the following four reasons. 
First, the current market rent was a 'commercial essential', indeed the 'focal point' in the relations between the parties. But it was never discussed by them. Secondly, there was no clear basis for inferring a 'manifest mutual assent' between them, since the evidence showed instead that they simply overlooked it. Thirdly, 'implication or inference as stated earlier reveals no agreement'. Fourthly, statements indicating an awareness of the market review date of 18 August 2012 were never made by either party until the Applicant filed its Application on 16 August 2013.
In his oral submissions, Mr Soltan argued that another reason why there was no 'mutual assent' between the parties that the new lease arising out of the Applicant's exercise of the option to renew had not been executed by it.
Mr Soltan relied in this context on a Supreme Court case, Callaghan v Merivale CBD Pty Ltd  [2005] NSWSC 985. Here a lessee sued successfully to recover overpaid rent, which the lessor had demanded without being entitled to do so. The passage in the judgment (at [27]) on which Mr Soltan placed particular emphasis was as follows:-
In submitting that the Tribunal, at [20], had stated and applied the law correctly in finding (as an alternative ground) that a 'supplementary agreement' had arisen out of the parties' of conduct, Mr Ireland relied on passages in the Court of Appeal's decision in Brambles Holdings Limited v Bathurst City Council (2001) 53 NSWLR 153;  [2001] NSWCA 61. The issue in that case was whether the respondent Council was entitled to require the appellant company, with which it had a contract for waste disposal, to remit to it a proportion of liquid waste fees that the appellant collected from third parties. In upholding the trial judge's decision in favour of the Council, the Court held that the appellant, by its conduct, had impliedly accepted an offer by the Council which included provision for the partial remission of these fees.
The passages in the judgments on which Mr Ireland relied included the following extracts from the judgment of Heydon JA:-
Mr Ireland also cited the judgment of Ipp JA at [173]:-
At the hearing, we suggested to the parties' representatives that the Applicant's 'irrevocable' exercise of the option to renew the Lease might be significant in the present context. This was effected on 15 April 2013, in a notice that was executed by the Applicant through the means of a signature supplied by Mr Richerdson. We suggested that this action could be viewed as part of a course of conduct by the Applicant signifying its acknowledgment that the rent stated in the Payment Plan Agreement was both the current market rent and the rent which, increased by 5% in accordance with the Lease, would be chargeable in the first year of the new lease.
In response to this suggestion, Mr Soltan argued (a) that Mr Richerdson's exercise of the option could not be viewed in this light because of his evidence that he was unaware of the terms of the Lease and (b) that this exercise of the option during the permitted period of only three months was a 'commercial necessity' to keep the Applicant's business in operation.
Mr Ireland submitted that at that time Mr Richerdson must have known the terms of the Lease, or must at least be deemed to have known them. He pointed out also that if at the time of exercise of the option the Applicant had been in breach of any term of the Lease the Respondents could have refused to grant a new lease. This consideration, he said, added to the 'unfairness' of the Applicant's conduct in seeking subsequently to depart from the parties' mutual understanding as to the amount of the rent payable.
In our opinion, the Tribunal was correct in concluding that a supplementary agreement arose by virtue of the parties' course of conduct between the time when this agreement was concluded (October 2012) and the time when the Applicant sought to dispute this status (August 2013). This supplementary agreement confirmed the status of the rent agreed in the Payment Plan Agreement as being the rent payable during the last year of the Lease and therefore effectively the current market rent.
We make the following additional observations. If there were any doubt as to whether a supplementary agreement of this nature had arisen by the time the option was exercised, the act of exercising it 'irrevocably' eliminated this doubt. Like the Payment Plan Agreement, the letter exercising the option was only intelligible if read in conjunction with the Lease. In particular, the rental amount initially due under the new lease, to which the Applicant conveyed its concurrence by exercising the option, was only ascertainable through consulting the terms of the Lease. The argument that the Applicant could claim not to be bound by this term of the new lease because Mr Richerdson, at the time of exercising the option, was not aware of the terms of the original Lease is simply not maintainable. Two authorities (mentioned above) that Mr Ireland cited make this clear: Zucker v Straightlace Pty Ltd  (1986) 11 NSWLR 87 and Toll (FGCT) Pty Ltd v Alphapharm Pty Ltd (2004) 219 CLR 165
The outcome of our consideration of this issue is that, subject to the arguments (outlined below) relating to the rules of natural justice, this appeal must be dismissed. Our earlier opinion that, under the express terms of the Payment Plan Agreement properly construed, the rent stated for the final year of the Lease might well have been agreed to be the current market rent was deliberately not put forward as a firm conclusion. But we are satisfied that the subsequent conduct of the parties, including particularly the Applicant's 'irrevocable' exercise of the option to renew, constituted a supplementary agreement confirming this proposition.
An alternative way of justifying this outcome, on which we do not formally rely as it was not put before the parties, involves the following propositions: (a) the Payment Plan Agreement did not fix the rent stated in it as the agreed amount of current market rent, but simply designated it as a rental to be paid 'on account' until the current market rent had been agreed or determined; (b) the Applicant therefore remained entitled, under clause 5 of the Lease, to invoke the statutory procedure for having this rent determined by a specialist rental valuer; (c) the Applicant's decision, however, to exercise the option to renew, signifying its agreement to pay rent under the new lease at the amount stated in the Agreement plus 5%, amounted to a waiver of this right to invoke the statutory procedure and/or a deemed acceptance of the rent stated in the Agreement as the current market rent.
Amongst a number of submissions put forward by Mr Soltan in challenging the Tribunal's decision that an estoppel arose in the Respondents' favour, it is necessary to mention only one. This is that there was no 'cogent evidence' to support the Tribunal's findings, at [28], that 'Both parties adopted an assumption as a term of their legal relationship to the effect that the monthly rate of rent would be $31,827.27 for the 2012-2013 lease year and the relevant current market rent', that 'The Applicant induced or acquiesced in the Respondents' adoption of that assumption...' and that '... the Applicant knew or intended that the Respondents were so acting'.
On the footing that, as we understand the law on estoppel, any such 'assumption', 'inducement' and 'acquiescence' must be subjective, in the sense that a person or persons must be found to have assumed, induced or acquiesced (as the case may be), we incline to the view that this submission by Mr Soltan is well-founded. The evidence as to the subjective knowledge and intentions of the officers and agents of the parties is at odds with these findings by the Tribunal.
These doubts as to the Tribunal's ruling on estoppel do not affect our decision as to how the appeal should be disposed of. The primary basis on which the Tribunal determined these proceedings in the Respondents' favour was that on an objective view of the Payment Plan Agreement, the rent stated in it was agreed to be the current market rent. We have stated that this may well be correct, but that the matter is put beyond doubt by the subsequent conduct of the parties. Neither of these grounds of decision depends on findings as to what the officers or agents of the parties knew or intended.
Mr Soltan submitted that the Tribunal failed in its duty, imposed on it by section 73(2) of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997
The grounds on which Mr Soltan made this submission were that the Tribunal had based its decision on three grounds which had not been argued before it and to which it had itself made no reference during the hearing on 4 November 2011. These grounds (each of which has been examined earlier in the present decision) were as follows: (a) that the Payment Plan Agreement evinced an 'inferred intention' that the rent stated in it was the current market rent; (b) that a term to this effect should be implied; and (c) that the parties, by their subsequent conduct, reached an agreement to this effect.
According to Mr Soltan, the Applicant, being unaware that any of these grounds might be relied on by the Tribunal in reaching its decision, was deprived of the opportunity to argue against them. 
With respect to each of these grounds, Mr Ireland argued that any failure by the Respondent or the Tribunal to bring them to the Applicant's notice during the Tribunal proceedings did not justify setting aside the Tribunal's decision because each of them was an alternative or subsidiary ground of this decision. The primary ground of this decision was, he said, that the Payment Plan Agreement, in its express terms, included an agreement between the parties that the rent stated in it was the current market rent. It did not matter that any one or more of these three alternative grounds might not have been brought to the Applicant's notice. 
In support of his claim that each of the three grounds identified by Mr Soltan was an alternative or subsidiary ground, Mr Ireland relied on the following phrases used by the Tribunal: (a) 'in other words', appearing near the end of paragraph [17], immediately before the concept of 'inferred intention' was introduced; (b) the following sentence at the commencement of [19] - 'If, contrary to my opinion, there were not such an express term, such a term would be appropriate to be implied in the payment plan agreement' - and (c) 'Additionally', appearing in paragraph [16] at the commencement of the Tribunal's description of what it found to be the 'supplementary agreement'.
In support of his submission that reliance on an alternative or subsidiary ground that had not been notified to a losing party did not provide grounds for setting aside a decision, Mr Ireland relied on the Court of Appeal's decision in Seltsam Pty Ltd v Ghaleb  [2005] NSWCA 208.
In addition, Mr Ireland argued that in both the written and the oral submissions that he had put to the Tribunal on behalf of the Respondents, he had claimed that the course of conduct adopted by both parties following their entering into the Payment Plan Agreement had given rise to a 'supplementary agreement' as defined by the Tribunal at paragraphs [16] and [20] of its decision. He relied on a number of passages in these submissions, including the following:-
We agree with Mr Ireland that the Tribunal put forward the three grounds in question as 'alternative' and 'subsidiary' and that for this reason the Applicant could not rely on any failure by counsel for the Respondents or the Tribunal to bring any of them to its attention as a sufficient basis, standing alone, for overturning the Tribunal's decision. 
According to our view of this case, however, one of these three grounds - namely, the existence of a 'supplementary agreement' - is not merely an 'alternative' or 'subsidiary' ground. It constitutes the line of reasoning on which we believe that the Tribunal's decision in the Respondents' favour should be upheld. For this reason, the question whether the Applicant was in fact sufficiently notified of this line of reasoning and given an opportunity to respond to it is important. 
In our opinion, these two conditions were satisfied. In addition to the two passages from the Respondents' submissions that we have just quoted, we rely on an additional passage in Mr Ireland's oral submissions at the hearing. It follows immediately on from references by him to the amount of rent quoted in the tax invoices sent by TGC to the Applicant between October 2012 and July 2013:-
Each of these submissions by Mr Ireland was advanced in circumstances where Mr Soltan had an opportunity to respond to them. Their references to a 'course of conduct' giving rise to an agreement between the parties were sufficient to put the Applicant on notice that this interpretation of an aspect of the facts of the case might play a role in the Tribunal's decision.
For these reasons, we reject the Applicant's argument that this decision should be set aside on the ground that the Tribunal failed to observe the rules of natural justice.
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal must be dismissed.
We give the following directions with regard to the costs at first instance and on appeal. Any application by the Respondents for the costs of these appeal proceedings must be filed and served within 28 days, along with supporting submissions and any additional submissions they may wish to make as to the costs of the proceedings at first instance. Any submissions in reply by the Appellant must be filed and served within a further 28 days. These matters of costs will then be determined 'on the papers', pursuant to section 76 of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997
############# I'm default separator ##########13
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - miscarriageof justice - whether significant possibility of differentoutcome WORDS & PHRASES - 'substantial miscarriage of justice'- Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW), Sch 4, cl 12
The appellants are tenants of a property at [XXXX], Sutherland. On 27 February 2014 the Tribunal below made a number of orders including orders, under ss 87, 88 and 187 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The appellants wished to appeal against that decision of the Tribunal and sought leave to do so under s 80(2)(b) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act). On 4 March 2013, in order to preserve the subject matter of any potential appeal, a stay of the orders made on 27 February 2014 was granted.
On 9 April 2014, the Appeal Panel determined that leave to appeal should be refused, the appeal should be dismissed and the stay of the orders made on 27 February 2014 should be lifted. Orders were made accordingly on that day. At that time we indicated that the Appeal Panel would deliver its reasons subsequently. These are the Appeal Panel's reasons for making those orders.
These reasons go into considerably more detail than might ordinarily be expected for an appeal in a residential tenancy matter of this nature. This is because the appeal rights under s 80 of the Act are a novel development in residential tenancy matters and this is one of the first matters in which these appeal rights under s 80 have been sought to be exercised. In these circumstances the Appeal Panel thought it appropriate to explain in detail what occurred in the matter, to indicate how matters of this nature might be dealt with and to set out the applicable principles.
On 5 February 2014, the landlords, the respondents, lodged a Termination and Possession Application for Non-Payment of Rent form with the Tribunal. The orders sought in the form were for "[t]ermination and possession of the premises on the ground of non-payment of rent", "[p]ayment of rent arrears" and '[t]he rental bond (or part) to be paid to you". In addition, in response to the question "If the tenant pays all rent owing or enters into and fully complies with a repayment plan, will you nevertheless be seeking to terminate the tenancy agreement because the tenant has failed to pay rent?", the respondents ticked the box "No". In response to the question "What are your reasons for requesting the above order/s?" it was stated: To date rentals arrears are $1901.43 tenants will not answer calls or text to explain their situation or to arrange payment plan. When the tenants say they will come in and pay rent, they fail to do so. Termination noticed was issued on the 20.01.14 and hand delivered on this date. I allowed one day to be deemed 'served'. Termination date 4/2/14.
Attached to the form were: (1) a Termination Notice, stated to have been served on 21 January 2014 by hand delivery, with a date on which vacant possession was required of 4 February 2014; (2) a letter from the landlords' agent to the appellants giving them the option of continuing the tenancy if they contacted the agent to explain their position and paid the rent including all arrears of rent before 4 February 2014; and (3) a "Tenant Balance" which recorded the rent owing as at 4 February 2014 and a "Tenant Ledger" which recorded the rental payments and amounts owing from 26 September 2013 to 29 January 2014.
On 19 February 2014, the matter was listed for hearing on 27 February 2014 at Hurstville. A Notice of Conciliation and Hearing was apparently sent by the Registry to both the appellants, at the address of the property, and to the respondents, at the address of their agent.
The principal sections of the RT Act that are applicable to a claim for termination of a residential tenancy agreement on the basis of non-payment of rent are ss 87 and 88. Termination and other types of orders may also be made under s 187 of the RT Act in cases such as the present. Sections 87 and 88 provide: 87 Breach of agreement (1) A landlord may give a termination notice on the ground that the tenant has breached the residential tenancy agreement. (2) The termination notice must specify a termination date that is not earlier than 14 days after the day on which the notice is given. (3) The termination notice may specify a termination date that is before the end of the fixed term of the residential tenancy agreement if it is a fixed term agreement. (4) The Tribunal may, on application by a landlord, make a termination order if it is satisfied that: (a) the tenant has breached the residential tenancy agreement, and (b) the breach is, in the circumstances of the case, sufficient to justify termination of the agreement, and (c) the termination notice was given in accordance with this section and the tenant has not vacated the premises as required by the notice. (5) In considering the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal may consider (but is not limited to considering) the following: (a) the nature of the breach, (b) any previous breaches, (c) any steps taken by the tenant to remedy the breach, (d) any steps taken by the landlord about the breach, (e) the previous history of the tenancy. (6) The Tribunal may refuse to make a termination order if it is satisfied that the tenant has remedied the breach. Note. Section 152 sets out additional matters to be considered if the residential tenancy agreement is a social housing tenancy agreement. 88 Termination notices for non-payment of rent (1) A termination notice given by a landlord on the ground of a breach of the residential tenancy agreement solely arising from failure to pay rent (a non-payment termination notice) has no effect unless the rent has remained unpaid in breach of the agreement for not less than 14 days before the notice is given. (2) A non-payment termination notice is not ineffective merely because of any failure of the landlord or the landlord's agent to make a prior formal demand for payment of the rent. (3) A non-payment termination notice must inform the tenant that the tenant is not required to vacate the residential premises if the tenant pays all the rent owing or enters into, and fully complies with, a repayment plan agreed with the landlord, unless the Tribunal makes a termination order on the basis that the tenant has frequently failed to pay rent on time. (4) Despite any other provision of this Part, a landlord may apply to the Tribunal for a termination order before the termination date specified in a non-payment termination notice. The Tribunal must not consider any such application until after the termination date.
The file reveals that at the hearing on 27 February 2014, the respondents' agent appeared and gave evidence by affirmation. There was no appearance by the appellants. In accordance with the usual procedure adopted in residential tenancy matters in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal the respondents' agent gave part of her evidence by way of completing part of a form headed "Hearing Notes" which are described on the form as "Tribunal Record". On the front page of the Hearing Notes were the agent's details, details of the tenancy agreement and rental bond, information concerning the "Non-payment Termination Notice" and information concerning the "Current Situation" which indicated that the premises were not vacant, the rent had been paid until 1 January 2014, the arrears claimed were $3,247.00, the last date of payment of rent was 29 January 2014, the rent was 55 days in arrears and was accruing at a daily rate of $58.57. In addition, a copy of the written tenancy agreement was before the Tribunal as well as an updated Tenant Balance and Tenant Ledger indicating that no further payment of rent had been made since 4 February 2014 when the application was lodged. It appears from ticks on the Hearing Notes that the Member may have questioned the agent to confirm aspects of the information provided in the Hearing Notes.
On the back of the form headed "Hearing Notes" in a section marked "Tribunal use only" the Member who conducted the hearing circled various options thereby in effect recording that there was no appearance for the tenant or respondent and finding that the premises were residential, the hearing notice had been served, the agreement was a regulated agreement and was written, the application had been received within time and the notice to vacate was valid. By ticking various boxes, it was also effectively found that the premises were residential premises, the termination and vacant possession date was not earlier than 14 days after the day on which notice was given, the grounds were that rent was unpaid for not less than 14 days before notice was given and the notice was in writing. In addition, findings were made as follows: 3 adults Employed No children Substantial arrears
The Appeal Panel had before it the Termination and Possession Application for Non-Payment of Rent form, the documents provided with the form, the other documentation presented by the agent at the hearing and the Hearing Notes, including the part prepared by the respondents' agent and the part completed by the Member.
The form of orders issued included the following: "Reasons: - rent from 2 January 2014 to 27 February 2014 $3,248.57 - including $90.00 paid on account".
All of this material indicates that the relevant requirements under ss 87 and 88 of the RT Act were the subject of uncontested evidence, were considered by the Tribunal and were found to have been satisfied.
The Tribunal made orders on 27 February 2014 in the following form: 1. The Residential Tenancy Agreement is terminated in accordance with: - s 87 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 as tenant has breached the agreement. - failure to pay rent in accordance with agreement. 2. The Residential Tenancy Agreement is terminated on 3 March 2014 and possession is to be given to the landlord on the date of termination. 3. The tenant shall pay the landlord a daily occupation fee at the rate of $58.57 per day from the day after the date of termination, namely 4 March 2014 until the date vacant possession is given to the landlord. 4. Within 60 days of the date for possession of the premises specified in these orders the landlord may request the relisting of the application to determine the amount of the occupation fee owing. 5. The landlord's agent is to advise the tenant in writing by the delivery of a letter to the premises by 6:00pm on 27 February 2014 of the orders made today. 6. The tenant, Brianna Collins & Stephen Beazley, [xxx] Glencoe Street SUTHERLAND NSW 2232 Australia, is to pay the landlord, Helmut Urban & Dagmar Urban, c/- L H Hooker PO Box [xxx] SUTHERLAND NSW 2232 Australia, the sum of $3,248.57 immediately. Reasons: . rent from 2 January 2014 to 27 February 2014 $3,248.57 . including $90.00 paid on account 7. The Rental Bond Services is directed to pay the landlord, Helmut Urban & Dagmar Urban, c/- L J Hooker PO Box [xxx] SUTHERLAND NSW 2232 Australia, the whole bond plus interest of Rental Bond [xx-xx]. Any amount received is to be credited against the money order.
The Tribunal has only one form for an internal appeal called a Notice of Appeal. There is no separate form for an application for leave to appeal.
This is because the Tribunal is required to act with as little formality as the circumstances of the case permit and without regard to technicalities or legal forms (s 38(4) of the Act) and the requirement that Tribunal's practice and procedures should be implemented so as to facilitate the resolution of issues between the parties in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject matter of the proceedings (s 36(4) of the Act).
A party seeking to appeal under s 80 of the Act is required in the Notice of Appeal to indicate whether leave to appeal is being asked for. If so, the party is also required in the form to state the bases upon which the Appeal Panel should grant leave. In these circumstances, the party seeking to appeal is called an appellant, even if technically they might be considered to be merely an applicant for leave to appeal.
The appellants lodged a Notice of Appeal on 4 March 2014. The notice stated that the appellants had received the notice of decision on 28 February 2014.
In the notice, the orders sought to be challenged on appeal were stated to be: The Residential Tenancy Agreement is being terminated. Did not receive letter of orders till 28th of Feb
The grounds of appeal were identified as follows: 1. The situation was explained to the real estate. 2. Regular contact via phone was made to the real estate. 3. Appealants believe they can pay back amount quickly due to Stephen starting new employment.
The orders that the appellants were asking the Appeal Panel to make if any appeal were successful were stated to be: The Residential Tenancy Agreement not to be terminated. Rent to be paid weekly as agreed plus an extra amount with rent that both parties agree on until amount owing is paid off.
Although not expressly stated, from the information in the form it may be inferred that the appellants also sought to appeal against the other orders including the order for possession and the order for the payment of arrears immediately.
The grounds relied upon do not raise any question of law but rather appear to relate to attempts to negotiate "a repayment plan agreed with the landlord" (as referred to in s 88(3) of the RT Act) being an agreement to make a weekly payment in addition to the rent in order to pay off the arrears of rent which were not disputed to be owing. No suggestion is made that such a repayment plan was ever agreed.
As noted above, the appellants were required in their form to indicate whether they were seeking leave to appeal. The requirement for leave to appeal is dealt with in s 80 of the Act which governs internal appeals from decisions of a Division of the Tribunal to the Appeal Panel. Section 80 relevantly provides: (1) An appeal against an internally appealable decision may be made to an Appeal Panel by a party to the proceedings in which the decision is made. Note. Internal appeals are required to be heard by the Tribunal constituted as an Appeal Panel. See section 27 (1). (2) Any internal appeal may be made: (a) in the case of an interlocutory decision of the Tribunal at first instance-with the leave of the Appeal Panel, and (b) in the case of any other kind of decision (including an ancillary decision) of the Tribunal at first instance-as of right on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other grounds. ...
The decision from which the appellants were seeking to appeal was a final decision not an interlocutory or ancillary decision (see the definitions in s 4(1) of the Act). Under s 80(2)(b), the appellants could only appeal as of right from this decision on a question of law. Otherwise, leave to appeal was required under s 80(2)(b).
As we stated above, the appellants' grounds of appeal do not raise any questions of law. In these circumstances the Appellants in their Notice of Appeal correctly indicated that they were asking for leave to appeal.
Furthermore, the decision appealed from was made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. When considering an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division to the Appeal Panel, the Panel is required to be satisfied of the matters set out in cl 12 of Schedule 4 to the Act before leave can be granted. That clause provides: 12 Limitations on internal appeals against Division decisions (1) An Appeal Panel may grant leave under section 80(2)(b) of this Act for an internal appeal against a Division decision only if the Appeal Panel is satisfied the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because: (a) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was not fair and equitable, or (b) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was against the weight of evidence, or (c) significant new evidence has arisen (being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with).
The expression "Division decision" in cl12(1) is defined in cl 1 of Schedule 4 and includes a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division when it is exercising functions under the RT Act by virtue of the definitions of "the Division" and "Division function" in cl 1 and the provisions of cl 3(1) of Schedule 4.
It is for these reasons that the Notice of Appeal form also requires an appellant to indicate whether the decision appealed from is a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division. If so and the appellant is seeking leave, the appellant is then required to address in the form the criteria which the Appeal Panel must consider under cl 12 of Schedule 4. In this regard, the appellants stated under the heading "i. the decision was not fair and equitable": The decision made was not fair and equitable due to details given in original form being false. Reg. Contact was made with explanation of situation. Appealants were willing to arrange a payment plan but never received an attempt to do so. Real estate mentioned one but never made a plan or contract so one could be put in place.
Under the heading "ii. Decision of the Tribunal was against the weight of the evidence" and the subheading "What evidence did you give at the hearing? What documents did you show the Tribunal" the appellants stated: None, we did not receive a letter of consillation & notice until late the previous evening and did not realise the proceedings were to take place the following morning
Under the heading "iii. Evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of hearing" and the subheading "What evidence/documents do you now seek to produce to the Tribunal?", it was stated: Evidence of contact via phone-phone call history.
No information was given as to when the appellants first became aware of that evidence or why it was not available at the time of the hearing.
On 4 March 2014, the Appeal Panel made orders and directions as follows: 1. The orders made by the Tribunal in application RT14/08008 are stayed until further order. 2. a) the appellant is to file and serve submissions and documents (including the question of whether leave should be granted and whether the proceedings should be determined on the papers) on or before 10 March 2014. b) the respondent is to file and serve submissions and documents (including the question of whether leave should be granted and whether the proceedings should be determined on the papers) on or before 14 March 2014. c) on or before 18 March 2014 the appellant is to file and serve submissions in reply.
On 10 March 2014, the appellants filed their submissions and documents. The document provided was a schedule of calls from a mobile telephone number to the landlords' agent's telephone number showing that there was 1 call in February 2014 and 6 calls in January but some were only very short, less than a minute. The submissions were as follows: Due to Stephen Beazley gaining new employment starting on the 12/03/2014 at [XXXX], Mascot the rent in arrears will be able to be paid off over time. The appellants have started moving objects from the property [XXXX] to storage while trying to find a suitable time-frame to be able to find a new, efficient and affordable property to move into and for a third-party (the tribunal) to step in and make suitable and agreeable arrangements for the appellants to make a payment plan for the rent owing to the respondents. The Appellants have already stated their answer to the question of leave and whether the proceedings should be determined on the papers.
On 13 March 2014, the respondents filed their Reply to Appeal, under Rule 26 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014. In that reply, the respondents opposed the granting of leave on the basis that "the tenants have paid no rent since 29.01.14 even after seeking appeal." On that same day the respondents' agent provided her written submissions. They were as follows: In response to appellants, I believe that leave should not be granted. The tenants have not paid any rent since the 29.01.2014. They have made no effort to pay off the arrears, or even make regular rent payments. They have given no explanation as to why the rent has fallen behind and no efforts to put a payment plan in place to rectify their arrears. I have made constant attempts to contact the tenants including text, emails and phone calls - (evidence provided) all going unanswered, dating back to when the termination noticed was served (20.01.2014). The tenants where notified on every occasion of the steps taken, (as demonstrated in the text log). When the initial termination was served, when the tribunal was scheduled - including time and date, and finally the outcome of the hearing. The tenants did not reply to any of the above and still rent went unpaid. As for the phone records provided by the tenants these were calls from Stephen notifying the office when he would be in to pay the rent. From the seven calls logged only on two occasions did he actually come into the office to pay rent, the 20.01.2014 and 29.01.0214 all other calls that were made were asking when we were open, our bank details and other time wasting tactics saying he was 'stuck in traffic' etc. We received no other call, or contact since the 07.02.2014. Upon my application to the tribunal on the 04/02/2014 I did state that if the tenants paid their rent in full they could continue their agreement. Since there has been no contact from the tenants and no effort what so ever to rectify their rental arrears I ask to withdraw that option. I also believe that since the bond has already been released to the office to assist the rental arrears (payment on ledger dated the 04.03.2014) as part of the verdict of hearing Rt14/08008. The owner has lost that security and wish for the tenants to vacate as soon as possible. The tenant's agreement is due to expire on the 26.03.2014 I ask that they be out of the unit by that date at the latest. Keeping in mind that this is two months after the termination notice was sent and will be over a month since the tribunal hearing which gave them the vacate date of the 03.03.2014.
The respondents also provided an updated Tenant Balance and Tenant Ledger indicating that no further payments had been made up to 13 March 2014.
It does not appear that the appellants filed any submissions in reply. Further the appellant did not seek to rely upon a transcript of the proceedings before the Tribunal.
Section 50 of the Act governs when an oral hearing is required in the Tribunal. Section 50 provides, in part: (1) A hearing is required for proceedings in the Tribunal except: (a) in proceedings for the granting of leave for an external or internal appeal, ... (4) The Tribunal may determine proceedings in which a hearing is not required based on the written submissions or any other documents or material that have been lodged with or provided to the Tribunal in accordance with the requirements of this Act, enabling legislation and the procedural rules.
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel is not required to conduct an oral hearing in relation to this application for leave to appeal and may rely upon submissions and documents that are before the Tribunal.
Notwithstanding the provisions found in s 50, it must be borne in mind that the Tribunal, whether at first instance or sitting as the Appeal Panel, must under s 38(5)(c) "take such measures as are reasonably practicable ... to ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings".
Accordingly, it will generally only be appropriate for the Tribunal, including the Appeal Panel, to proceed to hear and determine matters of this type on the papers if it is satisfied that the parties have had a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered.
Having regard to the nature of the proceedings, being an application for leave to appeal, and the fact that the parties had had the opportunity to put their cases before the Appeal Panel in the Notice of Appeal and Reply to Appeal as well as in the submissions and documents which they were directed to file on 4 March 2014, the Panel was satisfied that its obligation under s 38(5)(c) had been discharged in this case. Consequently, it was appropriate for the Appeal Panel to determine the matter on the papers, as permitted by s 50(1)(a) of the Act. Adopting this course was also appropriate in a case such as the present because it saved the parties from incurring the costs of attending an oral hearing, when the subject matter of the substantive claims was not such as would justify the incurring of any additional delay, cost or expense.
Although it was not a matter relied upon or raised by the parties, the Appeal Panel believes it is appropriate and may be of assistance to make some observations on the duty to give or prepare reasons for decisions in the light of the approach taken in the present case.
The Tribunal below decided the matter and made orders on 27 February 2014. At that time, it appears no reasons for decision were delivered apart from the notation to the effect that the rent from 2 January 2014 to 27 February 2014 which was owing amounted to $3,248.57. From the orders made, the Hearing Notes and the other material referred to above, it is possible to discern what determinations were made by the Member as to the amount of rent unpaid, whether the residential tenancy agreement had been breached and whether an order for termination and possession should be made.
Neither the appellants nor the respondents apparently requested the Tribunal at first instance to provide a written statement of reasons for its decision notwithstanding that such a course was available under s 62(2) of the Act. Since the appellants did not request reasons, it is not surprising that failure to give reasons was not relied upon as a ground of appeal.
Section 62 provides: (1) The Tribunal (including when constituted as an Appeal Panel) is to ensure that each party to proceedings is given notice of any decision that it makes in the proceedings. (2) Any party may, within 28 days of being given notice of a decision of the Tribunal, request the Tribunal to provide a written statement of reasons for its decision if a written statement of reasons has not already been provided to the party. The statement must be provided within 28 days after the request is made. (3) A written statement of reasons for the purposes of this section must set out the following: (a) the findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based, (b) the Tribunal's understanding of the applicable law, (c) the reasoning processes that lead the Tribunal to the conclusions it made. (4) Nothing in this section prevents the Tribunal from giving oral reasons or a written statement of reasons for a decision it makes even if it has not been requested to do so by a party.
Section 62 establishes a regime under which the Tribunal is not under an express statutory obligation to provide reasons for a decision unless a party makes a request for reasons under s 62(2) but the Tribunal may and in many cases does prepare and give reasons for decision, whether oral or written, without a request to do so from the parties, consistently with s 62(4).
A provision such as s 62 of the Act does not, however, define exhaustively when there is a duty to give reasons or the extent of that duty.
One reason why reasons are generally required, notwithstanding a provision such as s 62, is that if reasons for decision are neither sought nor prepared and an appeal or application for leave to appeal is lodged, the findings of fact and legal reasoning of the decision maker at first instance would not be available to the appellate body by way of written reasons. In many instances not having findings of fact and legal reasoning explicitly available may render effectively worthless any appeal right because the appellate body does not have a statement of the findings of fact, the relevant law and explanation of how the law was applied to the facts as found, by the decision maker at first instance.
It was held in Pettitt v Dunkley [1971] 1 NSWLR 376 at 387 (per Moffitt JA, Manning JA agreeing) that: The force of the authorities, which in various ways say that the judge or magistrate at first instance in particular cases ought to have given reasons, is that, as part of his judicial duty and apart from any express requirement of any statute, he ought to have given reasons for the decision in question. I think there is duty upon a judge or magistrate, at least at first instance, in an appropriate case and in appropriate circumstances to give reasons for decision such as will facilitate a litigant, who may be aggrieved, exercising rights he may have to appeal. In Carlson v King [(1947)  64 WN (NSW) 6] Jordan CJ in delivering the decision of the Full Court said: "It has long been established that it is the duty of a court of first instance, from which an appeal lies to a higher court, to make, or cause to be made, a note of everything necessary to enable the case to be laid properly and sufficiently before the appellate court if there should be an appeal. This includes not only the evidence, and the decision arrived at, but also the reasons for arriving at the decision. [...]" The judgment otherwise makes it clear that this statement is directed to the general judicial duty of a judge of a court from which an appeal lies, whether or not a provision such as s. 144(3) [which in effect required a judge upon request to provide reasons] exists or not.
It can be observed that Jordon CJ in the passage quoted contemplates that the relevant duty may be discharged not only by giving oral or written reasons for a decision but also by preparing a suitable record of the evidence, law and reasoning so that an appellate body is properly informed if it is required to consider the matter on appeal.
The duty in relation to reasons endorsed in Pettit has been held to apply not only to Courts but also to other judicial or quasi-judicial tribunals or bodies - see for example Campbelltown City Council v Vegan [2006] NSWCA 284;  (2006) 67 NSWLR 372.
The other basis upon which it has been held that reasons are generally required to be given was recently reiterated by the Court of Appeal in Keith v Gal [2013] NSWCA 339 (per Gleeson JA at [109]) as being that failure to provide sufficient reasons promotes "a sense of grievance" and denies "both the fact and the appearance of justice having been done", thus working a miscarriage of justice, citing Mifsud v Campbell  (1991) 21 NSWLR 725 at 728; Beale v Government Insurance Office of New South Wales  (1997) 48 NSWLR 430 at 442 per Meagher JA. If, however, the parties have the right to request written reasons but do not do so, this basis for generally requiring reasons to be given may be of less significance but it continues to apply. Further, in proceedings that are uncontested by the respondent, this consideration may also carry less weight.
In relation to one of the principal predecessors of the present Tribunal, the Appeal Panel of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT) held that the principles identified above applied to that Tribunal. In Sydney Supermarkets Pty Limited v Xu [2009] NSWADTAP 28 the Appeal Panel of the ADT said at [56] - [60]: 56 The Tribunal is obliged to give adequate reasons. Appeal Panels of the Tribunal have routinely accepted the principles enunciated in the line of cases that includeSoulemezis v Dudley (1987) 10 NSWLR 247, Mifsud v Campbell (1991) 21 NSWLR 725 and Beale v Government Insurance Office of New South Wales (1997) 48 NSWLR 430. The Tribunal is a deliberative body engaged in the exercise of a judicial function when hearing and determining applications, giving reasons for decision and making final orders. See recently, Campbelltown City Council v Vegan [2006] NSWCA 284;  (2006) 67 NSWLR 372, esp at [109] ff per Basten JA. The Commonwealth authorities relating to Commonwealth tribunals are to similar effect. See, for example, Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33;  (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 366; Dornan v Riordan[1990] FCA 383;  (1990) 24 FCR 564 at 568; Edwards v Guidice [1999] FCA 1836;  (1999) 169 ALR 89 at  [10], [43]. 57 In our view, s 89(5) of the ADT Act, to which counsel for the appellant gave emphasis, does no more than confirm the law as it would in any event have applied to the Tribunal. 58 Section 89(5) states that the Tribunal must in reasons published under s 89 set out:
Section 89 of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 was in similar terms to s 62 of the Act, although there was no equivalent of s 62(4).
The Appeal Panel accepts that these principles should also be applied in relation to decisions in proceedings before the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, which are judicial in nature. An appeal lies from the Consumer and Commercial Division to the Appeal Panel as of right from a final or ancillary decision on a question of law and by leave on other grounds or from interlocutory decisions. As a result, there is generally a duty on Members sitting in the Consumer and Commercial Division to give oral or written reasons for their decisions or, at least in uncontested proceedings, "to make... a note of everything necessary to enable the case to be laid properly and sufficiently before the [Appeal Panel] if there should be an appeal", to quote the words of Sir Frederick Jordan in Carlson v King  (1947) 64 WN (NSW) 6.
A number of propositions can be derived from the authorities concerning the nature and extent of the duty to give of reasons as follows: (1) notwithstanding that there have been many cases (some of which are collected in De Iacovo v Lacanale [1957] VicRp 78;  (1957) VR 553, at pp 558-559) in which it has been held that it is the duty of a judge, magistrate or other relevant decision maker to state reasons, that does not mean that a decision maker must give his or her reasons in every case. There is no "inflexible rule of universal application" that reasons should be given for judicial decisions. Whilst it is no doubt right to describe the requirement to give reasons as "an incident of the judicial process", it is subject to the qualification that it is a normal but not a universal incident - Public Service Board of New South Wales v Osmond  (1986) 159 CLR 656 at 667 per Gibbs CJ; (2) the content and detail of the reasons for decisions to be provided will vary according to the nature of the jurisdiction which the body in question is exercising and the particular matter the subject of the decision - Wainohu v New South Wales (2011) 243 CLR 181 at [56] per French CJ and Kiefel J; (3) the administration of justice in this regard requires a pragmatic and functional approach to the obligations imposed upon decision makers at first instance - Resource Pacific Pty Ltd v Wilkinson  [2013] NSWCA 33 at  [46] per Basten JA; (4) not only is the obligation not universal in nature, but it is variable in its content and whilst transparency in decision-making is an important value, it is not cost free, and may involve separate parameters of quantity and quality - Resource Pacific Pty Ltd v Wilkinson  [2013] NSWCA 33 at  [48] per Basten JA.
In the Consumer and Commercial Division, and particularly in relation to uncontested residential tenancy matters, detailed reasons for decision are often not given, unless a s 62(2) request is made. This is, at least in part, a consequence of the volume of applications and the time available. It is not unusual for the Tribunal to be required to deal with 45,000 to 50,000 residential tenancy applications in a year. For example, in the period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013, 49,396 residential tenancy applications were lodged in the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal, the predecessor of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. In most cases, these applications are listed for conciliation and hearing within 21 to 28 days of lodgment. Most are disposed of at this first hearing in a group list of matters in which each application is allocated between 7 and 20 minutes of hearing time (depending on the nature of the application). This time allocation has been found to be workable because most applications are not contested.
To require the Tribunal in uncontested residential tenancy matters, absent a request under s 62(2), to give detailed reasons setting out specific findings of fact and the evidence supporting those findings, the applicable law and the reasoning processes leading to the conclusions reached by the Tribunal would involve time, effort and expense that could often be disproportionate to the nature and extent of the subject matter of a claim for termination of a tenancy for non-payment of rent or a similar claim arising under the RT Act. It would be likely to have the consequence that fewer residential tenancy matters could be listed for hearing on any one day and hearings would therefore be delayed unless funds were available to the Tribunal to pay more Members to sit and additional hearing rooms could be found and paid for. The most likely outcome would be generalised delay in resolution of residential tenancy matters. Furthermore and in any event, the average cost to the Tribunal of conducting residential tenancy hearings would be increased for the Tribunal, if not for the parties. In a significant number of residential tenancy proceedings the outstanding rent or other amount in issue might be anticipated to be less than the cost to the Tribunal of conducting the proceedings.
The obligation of the Tribunal is to resolve proceedings in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject matter of the proceedings as required by s 36(4) of the Act.
The Tribunal is also required to facilitate the resolution of the real issue between residential landlords and tenants justly, quickly and cheaply, under s 36(1) and (2)(a) of the Act. Landlords' and tenants' disputes concerning residential tenancies in many cases require resolution within weeks rather than months or years as might occur in other judicial bodies in relation to other types of matters.
In these circumstances and taking into account the nature of the jurisdiction being exercised, the particular subject matter of the decision in many residential tenancy disputes and the fact that giving detailed reasons is not cost free, the Appeal Panel concludes that in uncontested residential tenancy matters involving relatively small amounts of unpaid rent or other similarly small claims, while Members are required to prepare or record reasons for their decision that duty may be discharged by utilising a suitably drafted form to record (whether by written statements, circling options or ticking responses or a combination of methods): (1) the appearances for the parties; (2) the evidence given by the witness or witnesses and the resolution of any conflicts in the evidence; (3) the relevant details of the residential tenancy agreement, notice of termination and other documents provided to the Tribunal; (4) the elements of any relevant cause of action and whether the Member is satisfied that each element has been made out; (5) the elements of any relevant defence raised and whether the Members is satisfied that it has or has not been made out; and (6) any other relevant matter which would be necessary to allow the Appeal Panel to hear and determine any appeal on a question of law or, if leave were granted, on other grounds.
Such an approach is consistent with the position articulated by Sir Frederick Jordan in Carlson v King, taking into account in an appropriate manner the nature of uncontested residential tenancy proceedings, the requirements of ss 36 and 38 of the Act and the matters raised by Basten JA in Resource Pacific Pty Ltd v Wilkinson  [2013] NSWCA 33 at  [46] and [48].
The views expressed in the previous paragraphs should not be taken as precluding or discouraging the giving of oral reasons in uncontested tenancy matters at the time orders are made. This is the preferable course if time and circumstances permit. Moreover, if a request for a written statement of reasons for a decision is made under s 62(2) of the Act, it goes without saying that the Member is required to provide such a statement complying with s 62(3) within the 28 day period specified by the statute.
The Panel now turns to the question of whether the appellant should be granted leave to appeal in this matter where the decision appealed from was made by the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal.
In the case of an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, under cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act, the Appeal Panel's discretion to grant leave is only enlivened if the Panel is satisfied that: the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because: (a) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was not fair and equitable, or (b) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was against the weight of evidence, or (c) significant new evidence has arisen (being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with).
This clause appears to be based on the provisions of s 68(2) in the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (NSW) which permitted that tribunal to grant a rehearing if the applicant may have suffered a substantial injustice because of one or more the bases listed in that subsection were made out. Those bases were in substance the same as the 3 bases identified in cl 12. The significant difference between cl 12 and s 68 is that cl 12(1) requires that the appellant may have suffered "a substantial miscarriage of justice" rather than "a substantial injustice" as appeared in s 68(2).
Clause 12 does not require that the Appeal Panel must be satisfied that the appellant has actually suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice. All that is required is that the appellant "may" have suffered such a miscarriage.
The use of the expression "substantial miscarriage of justice" recalls the wording of the proviso to s (6)(1) of the Criminal Appeal Act 1912 (NSW) which is in the following terms: provided that the court may, notwithstanding that it is of opinion that the point or points raised by the appeal might be decided in favour of the appellant, dismiss the appeal if it considers that no substantial miscarriage of justice has actually occurred.
What constitutes a "substantial miscarriage of justice" in the context of s 6(1) was explained by the High Court in Mraz v The Queen [1955] HCA 59;  (1955) 93 CLR 493 at 514: It [the proviso] ought to be read, and it has in fact always been read, in the light of the long tradition of the English criminal law that every accused person is entitled to a trial in which the relevant law is correctly explained to the jury and the rules of procedure and evidence are strictly followed. If there is any failure in any of these respects, and the appellant may thereby have lost a chance which was fairly open to him of being acquitted, there is, in the eye of the law, a miscarriage of justice.Justice has miscarried in such cases, because the appellant has not had what the law says that he shall have, and justice is justice according to law. It is for the Crown to make it clear that there is no real possibility that justice has miscarried. (underlining added)
From this passage, it can be seen that the concept of a substantial miscarriage of justice refers to a failure in the way a matter was conducted or decided which deprived the appellant of a chance that was fairly open of achieving a better outcome than occurred.
A similar understanding of a miscarriage of justice is evident in cases which relate to an application for a new trial based upon fresh evidence becoming available. In Gallagher v R [1986] HCA 26;  (1986) 160 CLR 392, Gibbs CJ considered what degree of likelihood was required that a different, more favourable result would have been achieved in order for there to have been a miscarriage of justice. The Chief Justice rejected the approach that the "bare possibility" of such a result was sufficient as well as finding that it was too severe to require that a different result was "likely" or "would probably" have been achieved. Gibbs CJ, at 399, agreed with the view expressed by Mason and Deane JJ in that case (at 402): the ultimate question for decision by an appellate court when considering an application for a new trial on the ground of fresh evidence in the relevant sense, is, as the remarks of Rich and Dixon JJ. in Craig indicate, whether there has been a miscarriage of justice at the trial. The appellate court will conclude that the unavailability of the new evidence at the time of the trial involved such a miscarriage if, and only if, it considers that there is a significant possibility that the jury, acting reasonably, would have acquitted the applicant of the charge if the new evidence had been before it in the trial. (underlining added)
Notwithstanding his agreement with Mason and Deane JJ, Gibbs CJ went on to warn against too stringent a reliance upon particular words, in the following terms, at 399: However, I would emphasize that no form of words should be regarded as an incantation that will resolve the difficulties of every case. No test can detract from the force of the fundamental principle that the appeal must be allowed if a miscarriage of justice is shown to have occurred. It is only a practical guide to the application of that principle to say that the court will grant a new trial if, having approached the matter with the caution that is always demanded when fresh evidence is produced in a criminal case, and having weighed the credibility of the fresh evidence and considered its cogency in the light of the evidence given at the trial, it considers that a jury might reasonably have reached a different verdict if the evidence had been available at the trial.
This indicates that there will be a substantial miscarriage of justice where the fresh evidence was such that there was a "significant possibility" that a different, more favourable result would have been achieved if the evidence had been before the Court. There does not appear to be any difference of consequence between a "significant possibility" and a "chance which was fairly open" (to use the expression adopted in Mraz) of achieving a more favourable result.
The conclusion and the reasoning in Gallagher are directly applicable to cl 12(1)(c) which relates to a substantial miscarriage of justice because significant new evidence has arisen, being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with. There is no reason of principle why it would not be appropriate to adopt the same approach in relation to the other aspects of cl 12(1).
Accordingly, it should be accepted that a substantial miscarriage of justice may have been suffered because of any of the circumstances referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) where there was a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved for the appellant had the relevant circumstance in para (a) or (b) not occurred or if the fresh evidence under para (c) had been before the Tribunal at first instance.
As to the particular grounds in cl 12(1)(a) and (b), without seeking to be exhaustive in any way, the authorities establish that: (1) If there has been a denial of procedural fairness the decision under appeal can be said to have been "not fair and equitable" - Hutchings v CTTT [2008] NSWSC 717 at  [35], Atkinson v Crowley [2011] NSWCA 194 at  [12]. (2) The decision under appeal can be said to be "against the weight of evidence" (which is an expression also used to describe a ground upon which a jury verdict can be set aside) where the evidence in its totality preponderates so strongly against the conclusion found by the tribunal at first instance that it can be said that the conclusion was not one that a reasonable tribunal member could reach - Calin v The Greater Union Organisation Pty Ltd [1991] HCA 23;  (1991) 173 CLR 33 at 41-42, Mainteck Services Pty Limited v Stein Heurtey SA [2013] NSWSC 266 at  [153].
If in either of those circumstances the appellant may have been deprived of a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved then the Appeal Panel may be satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision was not fair and equitable or because the decision was against the weight of the evidence.
In order to show that a party has been deprived of a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" of achieving a different and more favourable result because of one of the circumstances referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c), it will be generally be necessary for the party to explain what its case would have been and show that it was fairly arguable. If the party fails to do this, even if there has been a denial of procedural fairness, the Appeal Panel may conclude that it is not satisfied that any substantial miscarriage of justice may have occurred - see the general discussion in Kyriakou v Long [2013] NSWSC 1890 at  [32] ff concerning the corresponding provisions of s 68 of the CTTT Act and especially at [46] and [55].
If the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the applicant for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on one of the grounds identified in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c), then the Panel "may" grant leave under s 80(2)(b) of the Act.
Thus, even if an appellant from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division has satisfied the requirements of cl 12 of Schedule 4 to the Act, the Appeal Panel must still consider whether it should exercise its discretion to grant leave to appeal under s 80(2)(b).
The principles which govern the granting of leave to appeal by the Appeal Panel under s 80(2)(b) should generally be consistent with those which are applied by Courts when considering the question of leave to appeal. These have recently been summarised by the Court of Appeal in BHP Billiton Ltd v Dunning [2013] NSWCA 421. In addition, the Supreme Court has considered the principles which apply when granting leave to appeal to the Court from a decision of the Guardianship Tribunal in a number of cases including SAB v SEM [2013] NSWSC 253. The Guardianship Tribunal has now been absorbed into the Tribunal as the Guardianship Division. As there are alternate rights of appeal from decisions of the Guardianship Division to the Supreme Court or the Appeal Panel (see cll 12 to 14 of Schedule 6 to the Act) both by leave in the case of interlocutory decisions or on grounds other than a question of law, the same principles should apply in deciding whether to grant leave to appeal to the Court or to the Appeal Panel.
Further, the Appeal Panel has addressed the relevant principles to be applied when deciding whether to grant leave to extend an appeal to the merits of the decision (under s 113(2) of Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW)) in Nakad v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2014] NSWCATAP 10. These principles may be applied by analogy when considering whether to grant leave to appeal under s 80(2)(b) of the Act.
The general principles derived from these cases can be summarised as follows: (1) In order to be granted leave to appeal, the applicant must demonstrate something more than that the primary decision maker was arguably wrong in the conclusion arrived at or that there was a bona fide challenge to an issue of fact: BHP Billiton Ltd v Dunning [2013] NSWCA 421 at  [19] and the authorities cited there, Nakad v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2014] NSWCATAP 10 at  [45]; (2) Ordinarily it is appropriate to grant leave to appeal only in matters that involve: (a) issues of principle; (b) questions of public importance or matters of administration or policy which might have general application; or (c) an injustice which is reasonably clear, in the sense of going beyond merely what is arguable, or an error that is plain and readily apparent which is central to the Tribunal's decision and not merely peripheral, so that it would be unjust to allow the finding to stand; (d) a factual error that was unreasonably arrived at and clearly mistaken; or (e) the Tribunal having gone about the fact finding process in such an unorthodox manner or in such a way that it was likely to produce an unfair result so that it would be in the interests of justice for it to be reviewed, (3) In relation to an application for leave to appeal relating to a question of practice and procedure, the application is to be approached with the restraint applied by an appellate court when reviewing such decisions, especially if the application is made during the course of a hearing: BHP Billiton Ltd v Dunning [2013] NSWCA 421 at  [21] and the authorities cited there.
As noted above, the grounds of appeal relied upon were: 1. The situation was explained to the real estate. 2. Regular contact via phone was made to the real estate. 3. Appealants believe they can pay back amount quickly due to Stephen starting new employment.
These grounds did not raise any error of fact or law by the Tribunal below. Implicitly they acknowledged that there was an amount that was required to be paid back, namely, the rent which had been unpaid for more than 14 days, which was the basis for termination of the residential tenancy agreement. This was confirmed by the appellants' submission in support of the leave application filed on 10 March 2014 where it was stated that due to one of the appellants gaining new employment the rent in arrears would be able to be paid off over time. The appellants were apparently in the process of moving out and what they wanted the Tribunal to do was to impose a rent repayment agreement on the landlord/respondents for them. In the submissions it was stated: The appellants have started moving objects from the property [XXX] to storage while trying to find a suitable time-frame to be able to find a new, efficient and affordable property to move into and for a third-party (the tribunal) to step in and make suitable and agreeable arrangements for the appellants to make a payment plan for the rent owing to the respondents.
As the appellants' appeal was not on a question of law, leave to appeal was required under s 80(2)(b) and as the decision under appeal was a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, the additional requirements of cl 12 of Schedule 4 to the Act were also required to be satisfied.
In their submissions in the Notice of Appeal on the question of whether the cl 12 additional requirements for leave had been satisfied, the appellants submitted: The decision made was not fair and equitable due to details given in original form being false. Reg. Contact was made with explanation of situation. Appealants were willing to arrange a payment plan but never received an attempt to do so. Real estate mentioned one but never made a plan or contract so one could be put in place.
This appears to be a reference to the statement in the Termination and Possession Application for Non-Payment of Rent form that "tenants will not answer calls or text to explain their situation or to arrange payment plan". Whether or not the appellants did answer calls or explain their situation, it was not in dispute that their rent was in arrears and had been so for more than 14 days or that no repayment plan that might have averted the respondents' application was ever entered into. Further, there was no suggestion that the Tribunal had made an error in relation to whether the appellants had made contact and explained their situation. The complaint was rather that the respondents' agent had given false details to the Tribunal. Finally, the information supplied by the appellants and the respondents indicated that while there was some contact between the appellants and the respondents' agent, no repayment agreement was reached, no arrears of rent were paid and no other relevant matter occurred. Accordingly, there was no basis to conclude that the decision was not fair and reasonable on this basis. Nor did the material submitted indicate that as a consequence of the allegedly false details being given the appellants were deprived of a significant chance of a more favourable outcome than occurred. The rent was unpaid for more than 14 days and the appellants did not point to any basis for not making the termination order.
As to whether the decision was against the weight of the evidence for the purposes of cl 12(1)(b), the appellants raised in the Notice of Appeal the allegation that they did not attend the hearing and provide evidence to the Tribunal because they did not receive the notice of listing until late the evening before the hearing and "did not realise the proceedings were to take place the following morning". This does not go to whether the decision was against the weight of the evidence. Nonetheless, it does appear to raise a question of whether there was some denial of procedural fairness in the way in which the proceedings were conducted, especially if the appellants were denied a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered, in breach of s 38(5)(c) of the Act. This might mean that the decision was not fair and equitable within s 12(1)(a).
When the allegation is examined, however, it appears that the appellants do not deny receiving the written notice of the hearing before the hearing. The complaint is that they received it only the evening before and they did not realise that the hearing was to take place the next morning. Neither the Tribunal nor the respondents can be said to be responsible for the appellants' failure to realise when the hearing was to take place. The notice of hearing was explicit that the hearing will take place on 27 February 2014 at Hurstville and at the time stated in the notice. No explanation was offered by the appellants as to why they failed to realise this. Further, there was material from the respondents' agent indicating that the agent had kept the appellants informed by text message of developments in the proceedings, including a message sent on 20 February 2014, 7 days before the hearing date, as follows: "Please be advised that tribunal is scheduled for 27th February at 9.15 am. Please let me know if you will be attending and if you will be paying any rent before then. Notification should be in your mail today."
Taking these matters into account, the Appeal Panel was not satisfied that the decision was not fair and equitable. Further, in the absence of any material to indicate what the appellants could have put before the Tribunal on 27 February 2014 (or at any other time) which would have led to a more favourable result for them, the Appeal Panel was not satisfied that the appellants might have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because they did not attend the hearing.
Finally in relation to cl 12(1)(c), the appellants stated in their Notice of Appeal that the evidence that was now available that was not reasonably available at the time of hearing was "Evidence of contact via phone-phone call history." This apparently referred to the print out of a history of calls from one of the appellants' telephones to the respondents' agent's telephone number. This only showed that that there was 1 call on 7 February 2014 and 6 calls in January and some were only very short, less than a minute. There was no allegation that this material was not available at the date of the hearing. For this reason, the Panel was not satisfied that there was any fresh evidence that fell within c 12(1)(c). Furthermore, there was no material put forward by the appellants to establish any reason to conclude that the original orders were erroneous or inappropriate. It does not appear to the Appeal Panel that the evidence referred to by the appellants would have had any significant impact upon the outcome of the proceedings at first instance. The appellants did not establish that they were deprived of a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" of achieving a different and more favourable result. In relation to this evidence of "contact via phone", therefore, the Appeal Panel was not satisfied that the appellants might have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because this was new evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with.
In the light of the conclusion that the Appeal Panel was not satisfied that the appellants might have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on one of the 3 grounds specified in cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 to the Act, the Panel's discretion to grant leave to appeal was not enlivened. Accordingly, it was not necessary to consider whether leave should be granted.
As a consequence, the Appeal Panel decided it should dismiss the application for leave to appeal. To the extent that an appeal had been instituted by the filing of a Notice to Appeal in this matter, such an appeal should be dismissed. In these circumstances, it was also appropriate to lift the stay of the orders made on 27 February 2014 by the Tribunal below.
Accordingly, the Tribunal made the following orders: (1) Leave to appeal is refused. (2) The Appeal is dismissed; (3) The stay of the orders made on 27 February 2014 is lifted.
############# I'm default separator ##########14
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Application to keep non-indigenous animals privately -refused by administrator - change in law after lodgmentof application forreview - new law curtailed right to hold the relevant class of animal privatelyand varied the discretionary criteriaapplicable to applications - whether thereview applicant has an accrued right to have case decided by reference to thepreviouslaw - Tribunal held not - Appeal allowed in part - the review applicanthas an accrued right to have his case heard, and to thatextent the new law doesnot apply - new discretionary criteria are applicable - matter remitted to theTribunal
On 9 September 2011 Mr Cavaleri applied under the Non-Indigenous Animals Act 1987 (NIAA) for a licence to keep privately crab-eating macaques, a non-indigenous species. (The 'macaque' is defined as any monkey of the genus Macaca, chiefly found in Asia, characterised by cheek pouches, and, generally, a short tail.)
After investigating his application and considering the advice of a statutory advisory committee, the agency refused his application (10 January 2012) and confirmed that decision following internal review on 9 March 2012. Mr Cavaleri had a history as a licensee going back to 1996 in relation to another type of macaque (the rhesus macaque). 
Mr Cavaleri applied to the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT) for internal review on 16 March 2012. The Tribunal held its review hearing on 1 February 2013 and delivered its decision affirming the agency's decision on 23 August 2013. 
The Tribunal decided not to deal in any detail with the merits of Mr Cavaleri's case, as in its opinion a change in the applicable law had rendered his application futile. The Tribunal noted that the applicable law had been amended while the matter was pending before it. The amendments took effect on 1 September 2012 (Non-Indigenous Animals Regulation 2012 (the 2012 Regulation)) five months after he lodged his application for review with the Tribunal. The Tribunal found that under the amended law he was no longer eligible to be considered for a licence, as he did not fall into the permitted categories of applicant under that law. Mr Cavaleri accepted this interpretation of the new law. But he argued that he had an accrued right to have his application heard by reference to the law in force at the time of the administrative decision (the Act as supplemented by the Non-Indigenous Animals Regulation 2006, cl 18 (2006 Regulation)). The Tribunal held that he did not have such a right, having regard to the relevant authorities on that subject. This is the key issue in this appeal.
The Tribunal then considered a separate submission that the 2012 Regulation was ultra vires and invalid insofar as it included within the meaning of a category 3a animal a restriction relating to the kind of licensees who might be granted a licence to keep that animal. The Tribunal rejected the submission, and held that a restriction going to the type of licensee could properly form part of a definition of a regulated animal, having regard to the scheme of the Act, its objects as revealed by a consideration of the whole of the Act and the width of the terms of s 6A (commenced 1 September 1997), in particular s 6A(1)(e).
The Tribunal saw its approach as consistent with the legislative intent and referred to the second reading speech of the Minister in support of s 6 and s 6A as they presently stand given in 1996. The Minister referred at a number of points to the connection between the conditions under which the animal is held and the animal's inherent characteristics in striking a balance in relation to individual and community risk factors.
In any case, the Tribunal considered that if it was wrong as to these conclusions, and is confined to the law as it applied at the date of the primary administrative decision, it would have affirmed the agency's decision on the merits. Critically, it indicated that it would have preferred the evidence of Professor Groves over the evidence of Ms Gray and Mr Patterson on issues in contest as to the adequacy or otherwise of Mr Cavaleri's keeping facilities, and other issues to do with community safety and animal welfare.
Mr Cavaleri lodged his notice of appeal on 19 September 2013.
The ADT has been abolished, and the appeal is now before the Appeal Panel of the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT) created by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act). The appeal remains governed by the provisions applicable to ADT appeals. See NCAT Act, sch 1, cl 7.
Accordingly the Panel is constituted in conformity with the provisions of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997, and the appeal may, as provided under those provisions relate to any question of law, and the appeal may be extended to the merits, if leave is granted by the Appeal Panel. 
Mr Cavaleri's appeal raises questions of law, and applies for leave to extend the appeal to the merits.
Mr Hatzistergos, counsel for Mr Cavaleri, divided his arguments into three points which he labelled as, one, 'accrued rights', two, 'repugnancy' and three, 'failure to exercise jurisdiction' (an argument made as a corollary to arguments one and two, and which depended for its success on the success of the principal arguments). Mr Dalla-Pozza appeared for the agency, and supported the Tribunal's decision.
The parties filed written submissions, and extensive lists of authorities.
We will begin by setting out the legislative background to the points raised.
The NIAA governs the introduction into the State of certain species of animals and regulates the movement and keeping of those animals within the State (see long title). It provides for the classification of non-indigenous animals, and establishes a licensing and permit system for the keeping and movement of non-indigenous animals.
Section 6 provides:
Section 6A (added in 1996) provides:
Crab-eating macaques are classified as Category 3a animals, because they are considered to be 'species which pose some threat to persons or domestic or native fauna and are permitted to be kept primarily for the purpose of exhibition, education, entertainment or conservation in high security institutions'. There are offence provisions if such animals are kept without a licence.
The considerations to which the agency may have regard in exercising its discretion to grant a licence are set out in s 15 and the section allows for additional matters to be prescribed by regulation. 
First we will set out s 15 which has remained unchanged: 
As previously noted at the time of the agency's decision, the matters prescribed under s 15(2)(g) by the Non-Indigenous Animals Regulation 2006, cl 18 (2006 Regulation), were as follows:
On 1 September 2012 the old Regulation was repealed and the new Regulation took effect, the Non-Indigenous Animals Regulation 2012 (the 2012 Regulation). The matters prescribed under s 15(2)(g) were substantially expanded. They are dealt with in the new cl 35 which provides:
It will be seen that cl 35(3) refers to cl 4. Of particular relevance to Mr Cavaleri's case is cl 4(1)(d), which is stricter in its terms than the clause in force at the time of the agency's decision. Clause 4(1)(d) states:
It will be seen that this provision purports to limit the granting of any licence to certain categories of applicant. As noted earlier, Mr Cavaleri acknowledges that he does not fit into any of these categories. The equivalent in the 2006 Regulation did not have any restrictions on permitted applicants.
Clause 4 of the 2006 Regulation was as follows:
As Gleeson CJ noted in Attorney-General (Qld) v Australian Industrial Relations Commission  [2002] HCA 42;  (2002) 213 CLR 485:
Section 30 of the Interpretation Act 1987 (the NSW Interpretation Act), in particular s 30(1)(c), (2)(b), (d), provides:
These principles are consistent with the common law position. Fullagar J in Ferrum Metal Exports Pty. Ltd. v. Lang  [1960] HCA 7;  (1960) 105 CLR 647, at pp 655-656, summarised the principles as being:
The leading modern authority is Esber v Commonwealth  [1992] HCA 20;  (1992) 174 CLR 430. Mr Esber had been receiving injury compensation payments on a weekly basis for an injury incurred in 1982 when he was a soldier which left him partially incapacitated for work. He applied on 25 February 1987 under provisions then in force for redemption of his future payments as a lump sum. 
On 27 October 1987 the administrator refused the application. On 24 June 1998, an amendment received assent which prevented redemption in cases where payments of more than $50 per week were being made (Mr Esber's situation). The amendment commenced on 1 December 1998. Earlier, on 15 September 1998 he had applied out of time for review of the decision by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (the application for extension of time was granted on 28 June 1989).
The Commonwealth contended that because of the change in the law that had occurred after the administrator had considered his application, he was now barred from receiving a lump sum payment. The Tribunal rejected the submission, and held that the application should be determined under the old law. It granted Mr Esber's application. The Federal Court reversed the decision, by majority (Davies and Hill JJ, Lee J dissenting). Mr Esber appealed to the High Court. The High Court upheld his appeal and reinstated the Tribunal decision.
The Court was satisfied as a matter of construction that the new law only applied the new rule to pre-repeal injury in cases not yet commenced: see, for example, per Mason CJ, Deane, Toohey, Gaudron JJ (the majority) at [15]-[17], citing Lee J with approval on this point.
Strictly read, the High Court's decision turns on a point of statutory construction. It was a case where guidance could be obtained from the statute.
Mr Cavaleri submitted that in this case there were no transitional provisions going to the question in issue; and guidance could not be drawn from the amendments or the statutory scheme read as a whole. Mr Cavaleri's arguments rely on the general principles found in s 30. Mr Cavaleri drew support for his submission that he was entitled to his case decided under the old law from the High Court's commentary on Mr Esber's case in the alternative. Mr Esber had submitted that if guidance could not be found within the statute, that the similar general principles found in s 8 of the Commonwealth in his case, in the alternative, that were the court not to obtain any guidance from the statutory scheme, the default principle favoured him. He had submitted that he had an accrued right of the kind to which the general principle in s 8 of the Commonwealth Acts Interpretation Act 1901 applied. 
The majority from [18] onwards fully considered this argument. It agreed with Mr Esber's submission, and gave two reasons. The critical passage appears at [21]:
Brennan J dissented. In his opinion, at most all that Mr Esber had accrued as at the time the law changed was merely a right to have his application determined, it did not extend to a vested right to have his application determined by reference to the old law. Brennan J referred to the nature of an administrative review hearing, noting that it involved a hearing de novo on the materials presently before the Tribunal, and differentiated it from the situation in judicial proceedings where the law in force at the time of the conduct in issue is applied, with the same principle applying on appeal.
Mr Cavaleri relies on the majority analysis. The fair course, he submits, is to decide his case by reference to s 15 read in conjunction with the 2006 Regulation. If the 2012 Regulation is applied, then because in particular of the licence restriction he has no prospect of success. 
In addition Mr Cavaleri relied on two Federal Court Full Court cases applying Esber: Lee v The Secretary, Department of Social Security [1996] FCA 1683;  (1996) 68 FCR 491, esp Cooper J at 504-506 and Moore J at 515-516, and Repatriation Commission v Keeley [2000] FCA 532;  (2000) 98 FCR 108 at  [38]- [46] per Lee, Cooper JJ. In Lee, a social security recipient who had incurred a debt to the Commonwealth as a result of an unlawful payment applied to the administrator for it to be waived. The administrator's decision only granted a part waiver. The recipient applied for review. The law at the time of the administrator's decision conferred an unfettered discretion. By the time the matter came on for consideration by the review tribunal the law had been amended to confined the discretion narrowly.
The tribunal applied the new law. The Court (Cooper, Moore JJ, Davies J dissenting) held that the old law should be applied. The majority focussed on the right of review, and regarded it as a right of a substantive not a procedural character. The broadest statement appears in the decision of Moore J at [20]-[22] of his reasons:
In Repatriation Commission v Keeley [2000] FCA 332 (Full Court, Cooper, Lee, Kiefel JJ) the question was whether the review tribunal wrongly applied a new statutory 'Statement of Principles' governing veterans' entitlements in respect of war-caused death instead of the previous 'Statement of Principles' that applied at the time of the primary administrative decision. The applicant widow conceded that she could not succeed under the new statement of principles. The primary judge in the Federal Court held that the old statement of principles should have been applied having regard to the Acts Interpretation Act as he could find no 'contrary intention' in the amending legislation. The Full Court upheld his ruling.
While upholding the primary judge and agreeing with her colleagues in this regard, Kiefel J made the following observations in relation to Esber:
In line with the approach adopted in Esber, consideration needs first to be given to whether anything can be implied from the scheme of the law as a whole and the content of the amending legislation as to whether the intent is that the amended law is to apply to cases that remain before the review tribunal. If that inquiry is inconclusive the question is then whether the applicant has an accrued 'right' within the meaning of s 30(1)(c) which is preserved.
We agree with the Tribunal below for the reasons it gave that in the present case no guidance can be gleaned from the new regulation as to this issue. Therefore the matter falls to be decided, as the Tribunal did, by reference to the default principle as set out in s 8. 
In this case Mr Cavaleri drew from the decisions to which we have referred the following principle: that a review applicant accrued a right upon lodgement of the application for review to have the case decided by reference either to the law in force as at the time of the lodgement of the application for review or alternatively as at the time of the administrative decision the subject of the review application. (As in this case the law was the same at both times, nothing turns on the distinction.)
Often in administrative law the new law is one that changes the width and nature of the discretionary considerations to be applied. An administrator, in line with the traditional principles enunciated in the common law authorities, would be expected to apply the new considerations to an application even though the application might have fared better had it been processed and finalised while the old law was in force. The respondent's submission is that Mr Cavaleri's case is no more than a case of this kind. During the time the matter was before the review tribunal (which stands in the shoes of the administrator) the law changed, and his case was, in effect extinguished, as he could not qualify within the narrow classes now allowed for the keeping of crab-eating macaques.
A recent Victorian case illustrates the distinction drawn in the authorities between cases that involve wide discretionary discretions that may vary with changes in the law, and cases where there is a fixed consideration or factum (as in Esber) which might be seen as determinative: Sisters Wind Farm Pty Ltd v Moyne Shire Council & Ors  [2012] VSC 324 (3 August 2012).
In mid-December 2008 the appellant applied for a permit to build a wind farm, and the relevant authority (the local council) refused the application. On 12 August 2009 the appellant submitted a revised application which was again refused. The appellant applied to the review tribunal, and was unsuccessful. The tribunal's decision was set aside on appeal to the Supreme Court as affected by legal error (failure to apply the correct noise standard), and the matter remitted to the tribunal for reconsideration of the aspect of its decision relating to noise impacts.
Before the proceeding could be heard again by the tribunal there were significant changes to the local planning scheme (in particular, significant changes adverse to the appellant's case in relation to noise). The appellant argued that it was entitled to have its application determined on the basis of the old law, the planning scheme as in force at the time of the application made in August 2009. The review tribunal held that it should apply the new law. The Supreme Court (Emerton J) dismissed the appeal, agreeing with the tribunal.
First, Emerton J was satisfied that planning legislation manifested a clear intention that planning disputes are to be resolved by the law as its stands from time to time, and in that way contemplates that instruments such as planning schemes will change from time to time. Secondly, her Honour considered that the jurisdiction invoked by lodgement of the application for review remained unexercised before the tribunal (the set aside order having quashed the first proceedings). It remained necessary for the tribunal to make a 'contemporaneous, de novo' decision (see [58]). She said:
At [71] ff, Emerton J embarked on a close analysis of the reasoning in Esber. She referred to the caution sounded by Kiefel J in the passage cited earlier in these reasons. After referring to the facts of Esber, she continued:
We have set out Emerton J's reasons at some length. We have included her Honour's comments on the WA Planning Commission case, as it was also relied on in argument before us by counsel for Mr Cavaleri.
It can be seen that there is considerable controversy in the leading authorities over the proper approach to be taken by a review tribunal in relation to a case where the law has changed between the time of the making of the original administrative decision and the matter being heard and determined by the review tribunal.
In our view, a number of the observations made by Emerton J are applicable to the present dispute.
The regulation of the keeping of non-indigenous animals is a complex subject. The law makes distinctions between categories of non-indigenous animals having regard to a variety of factors, the most important being - the risk they present to the human population of the country, the risk they present to the indigenous animal population if they escape, and animal welfare considerations linked to their happiness and ability to adapt to a foreign abode. This is necessarily, therefore, a fluid area of regulation. It would be odd if the administrator (or in the administrator's shoes, the review tribunal) could not apply the law as it applies from time to time. While those words ('from time to time') are not used in the legislation under notice in these proceedings, it can we think be reasonably inferred that the law is intended to be applied in that way.
However we consider that clause 35(3) insofar as it required the administrator to apply to this case the new clause 4(1)(d) did infringe an accrued right of Mr Cavaleri. The provision by excluding private applicants from the permitted classes of applicants meant that Mr Cavaleri was now disqualified from having a discretionary assessment made of his circumstances. His application for review was rendered futile.
In our view, Esber stands at least for the proposition that the new law, unless it evinces a clear contrary intent, cannot deprive a subsisting review applicant of their right to have the application heard and determined. In our view, sub-clause (3) of clause 35 read in conjunction with clause 4(1)(d) had that effect. To that extent we consider that clause 4(1)(d) cannot be applied to this case, as it deprives Mr Cavaleri of that accrued right. In our view no legislative intent was manifested to deprive a subsisting review applicant of the right to have the application heard and determined.
To that extent we differ from the reasons of the Tribunal below. We consider that the matter should be remitted to the Tribunal below to reconsider the appellant's review application having regard to the 2012 Regulation, save and except for the provisions of clause 35(3) and 4(1)(d).
We will deal briefly with the other points raised by counsel for Mr Cavaleri. In our view, the restriction on who may be permitted to keep an animal in the definition of an animal was not ultra vires. The general principle, we accept, is as stated in Shanahan v Scott [1957] HCA 4;  (1957) 96 CLR 245 at 250. A regulation-making power 'will not support attempts to widen the purposes of the Act, to add new or different means of carrying out or to depart from or vary the plan which the legislature has adopted....': approved, Project Blue Sky v Australian Broadcasting Authority [1998] HCA 28;  (1998) 194 CLR 355, 380. But the regulations here are supported by a general regulation power in s 29 which is of a standard type employing wide and plenary language. We are aware of no authority for the proposition that such a power can not be used to impose a restriction on classes of applicants or to prevent that power taking the form of coupling it with a definition going to another subject matter, here the definition of a category of affected animal. Indeed, there may be a presumption of validity in such cases: see Gibson v Mitchell [1928] HCA 37;  (1928) 41 CLR 275.
Finally Mr Cavaleri submitted that the Tribunal failed to exercise its jurisdiction in not considering the case on the merits. We have held that Mr Cavaleri did have an accrued right to have his application for review entertained, and the effect of new clause 4(1)(d) was to deprive him of that right. It follows therefore that the Tribunal failed properly to exercise its jurisdiction. While it did express a view in the alternative on the merits, it did so in very brief terms. In giving decisive weight to clauses 4 and 35(3) the tribunal below may have assumed the other relevant matters in the applicant's favour, on the basis that even putting his case at its highest, the evidence concerning the risk of macaques establishing a feral population was reason in itself for not exercising the discretion in his favour. For that reason the tribunal may have thought it unnecessary to set out express factual findings on the other criteria in s 15 and cl 35. We think that on reconsideration if would be desirable, in the interests of producing a comprehensive set of reasons, to consider expressly the full range of factors that are relevant to the present case.
In our view, the appropriate order is one setting aside the decision of the Tribunal below. In the event of the appeal being upheld, there was discussion at hearing as to whether the appropriate order ought be one of remittal or the Appeal Panel should give leave to extend the appeal to the merits, and dispose of the case.
In our view, the preferable course is to remit the review application to the Tribunal for resolution, applying the 2012 Regulation except as indicated in these reasons.
############# I'm default separator ##########15
STATUTORY INTERPRETATION - meaning of s 75(1)(c) of the Firearms Act 1996-effect of order quashing an Apprehended Violence Order on the Tribunal'sjurisdiction
On 19 October 2012 the Commissioner of Police notified Mr Rowe that his firearms licence had been revoked because he had become subject to an apprehended violence order. On appeal the District Court "quashed" the apprehended violence order but the Commissioner refused to reinstate his licence suggesting instead that Mr Rowe re-apply for a firearms licence. Mr Rowe applied to the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT) for a review of the revocation decision. The ADT decided that it did not have jurisdiction to hear that application: Rowe v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2013] NSWADT 179. Mr Rowe appealed to the Appeal Panel of the ADT against that decision. 
On 1 January 2014 the ADT was abolished and its jurisdiction taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT). This appeal is a "part heard proceeding" and NCAT may exercise all the functions that the ADT had immediately before its abolition: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, Sch 1, cl 7(3). That means that the provisions of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997
We have decided that the Tribunal did not make an error of law in concluding that it did not have jurisdiction to hear Mr Rowe's application. Section 75(1)(c) of the Firearms Act 1996
The Commissioner of Police has power to revoke a person's firearms licence in various circumstances, for example if the person is no longer a fit and proper person to hold a licence: Firearms Act, s 24. In addition, a licence is "automatically revoked" if the licensee becomes subject to an apprehended violence order: s 24(1). Section 75(1)(a) gives the ADT power to review certain revocation decisions: 
The underlying principles of the Firearms Act are set out in s 3:
The Tribunal acknowledged at [33] that the effect of the District Court's order quashing the apprehended violence order was to make the revocation of Mr Rowe's firearm's licence void from the beginning (ab initio). But that fact did not persuade the Tribunal that it had jurisdiction to hear an application for review of the automatic revocation decision. The Tribunal added at [31] that the remarks the Minister made in parliament in 1992 when introducing s 75 into the Firearms Act failed to have regard to the possibility that an apprehended violence order could be quashed or, more accurately, "annulled", on appeal: Crimes (Domestic and Personal Violence) Act 2007
Mr Rowe has the right to appeal on any question of law: ADT Act, s 113(2)(a). The question for the Appeal Panel, framed in its broadest terms, is whether the Tribunal erred in finding that it lacked jurisdiction to determine Mr Rowe's application for review. Mr Brown, representing Mr Rowe, submitted that the Tribunal has jurisdiction under s 75(1)(c). According to Mr Brown, the exclusion in that provision for revocations based on an apprehended violence order does not apply if the apprehended violence order is subsequently quashed. The effect of the quashing order is that the apprehended violence order is void from the beginning (ab initio): Rimanic & Anor v Business Licensing Authority [2002] VSCA 64 at  [14].
Alternatively, although this argument was not put to the Tribunal at first instance or raised in the Notice of Appeal, Mr Brown submitted that the Tribunal has jurisdiction under s 75(1)(a).
The Tribunal's reasoning and conclusion was correct. The common law principle that the effect of the District Court's quashing order is that the apprehended violence order was void from the beginning, does not give the Tribunal jurisdiction. If the automatic revocation is void from the beginning, there is no revocation and there is no decision for the Tribunal to review. 
Our conclusion that the Tribunal has no jurisdiction is supported by the 1992 Second Reading speech in relation to the Firearms Act. In that speech the Minister acknowledged that once an apprehended violence order is issued there will be no right of 'appeal' against the shooters licence. The qualification by the Minister that the automatic revocation only applies if people "exhaust all avenues and lose" is not a reference to people exhausting their appeal rights. We agree with the Tribunal's conclusion at [31] that the legislation does not have regard to the possibility that an order could be quashed on appeal. 
Section 11(5) lists the circumstances where the Commissioner must not issue a firearms licence to a person. Those circumstances include where a person "is subject to an apprehended violence order or who has, at any time within 10 years before the application for the licence was made, been subject to such an order (other than an order that has been revoked)"; s 11(5)(c). The Tribunal expressed the view at [26] that the word "revoked" in that context encompasses an order quashed on appeal. Mr Rowe's counsel disagreed. Because the Tribunal's remark was not crucial to its conclusion on jurisdiction, there is no need for the Appeal Panel to express a view as to its correctness. 
Mr Brown's alternative submission is that the Tribunal had jurisdiction under section 75(1)(a):
Section 75(1)(a) cannot be the source of the Tribunal's jurisdiction in this case because Mr Rowe's application was for a review of the automatic revocation decision made on 19 October 2012, not the subsequent decision to refuse to reinstate his licence. 
At the hearing Mr Zoppo, representing the Commissioner, assured Mr Rowe that if he re-applied for a licence the Commissioner would accept that the effect of the District Court's decision is that there was no automatic revocation of his licence. His application would be considered on its merits. Whether or not the Commissioner's approach is correct is not a matter that we are required to consider in this appeal.
Unlike most courts, this Tribunal only has the jurisdiction given to it by legislation. Section 73(1)(a) of the Firearms Act gave the Administrative Decisions Tribunal jurisdiction to review a decision by the Commissioner of Police to revoke a person's firearms licence. That power does not include a revocation which arises automatically when the holder of the licence is subject to an apprehended violence order. The fact that the apprehended violence order is subsequently quashed does not enliven the Tribunal's jurisdiction because the effect of the quashing order is that there is no revocation to review. 
############# I'm default separator ##########16
APPEAL - decision of Guardianship Tribunal - whether further evidence ofcapacity relevant on appeal - adequacy of reasons - relevantconsiderations
DEPUTY PRESIDENT: The decision is that we are going to dismiss the appeal and refuse leave to appeal on the merits. It is open to BCL at any time to apply to the Guardianship Tribunal for a review of the orders even before the expiry of the 12 month period. That can be a review of the orders themselves and/or a review of the people who have been appointed as guardians and financial managers. It seems to us that that is the appropriate course for BCL to undertake.
BCL is a 71 year old man who resides currently in an aged care facility. He has two adult daughters. A colleague, who is a solicitor, has provided support for BCL throughout these proceedings. 
This is an appeal against a decision of the Guardianship Tribunal made on 14 June 2013. The Guardianship Tribunal made two orders, a guardianship order in relation to BCL appointing the Public Guardian as his guardian for one year with various functions and an order for financial management. One of his daughters and his solicitor colleague were appointed jointly as financial managers. 
An external appeal against the Guardianship Tribunal's decision was lodged on 26 September 2013. Under the transitional provisions to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW), this panel is to determine, as NCAT, the appeal against the Guardianship Tribunal's decision. In doing so, the panel must apply the provisions of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW), which has now been repealed and the provisions of the Guardianship Act 1987 (NSW) (as it was prior as at 14 June 2013). The jurisdiction of this panel to determine the appeal comes from s 67A(1) of the Guardianship Act. 
The Appeal Panel appointed a guardian ad litem for BCL, and in turn the guardian ad litem has instructed counsel, Mr Braine, to appear on his behalf. There was no appearance today from any other respondent, although we should note that the Guardianship Tribunal, which is a statutory party, indicated that their representative, Ms Sprouster, would be available, if needed, to answer any questions about the Guardianship Tribunal's practice and procedure. There was no need to contact Ms Sprouster but we appreciate the fact that she made herself available. Neither of BCL's daughters, nor the person from the aged care assessment team who was a party to the Guardianship Tribunal proceedings chose to appear at the appeal hearing today. 
The appellant has the right to appeal on a question of law and also to apply for leave to appeal against the merits of the Guardianship Tribunal's decision. We will deal first with the questions of law and determine whether there have been any errors of law on the Guardianship Tribunal's part. 
The first ground of appeal was that the Guardianship Tribunal had failed to apply the principles in s 4 and s 14 of the Guardianship Act. Section 4 states: 
Section 14 is the provision in the Guardianship Act which sets out the considerations the Guardianship Tribunal should take into account when making a guardianship order. Those considerations include the views of the person, in this case, BCL; any person who has the care of the person; and the importance of preserving family relationships; the cultural and linguistic environments; and the practicability of services being provided to the person, without the need for making such an order.
The Guardianship Tribunal, in its written reasons at page 9, set out the principles in s 4 and s 14. Having set out those principles, the Tribunal highlighted a number of the principles that were relevant in this case, including the need to restrict BCL's freedom of decision making and freedom of action, as little as possible. The Guardianship Tribunal then outlined the considerations that it took into account, including BCL's own view, at the bottom of page 10 and the top of page 11 of its decision. The Guardianship Tribunal highlighted the importance of preserving BCL's existing family relationships, in particular the relationship with his daughters and the practicability of services being provided to BCL without the need to make a guardianship order. 
The Tribunal then set out the fact that one of BCL's daughters was prepared to be the alternative decision maker for her father but the Tribunal had decided that it would not be in BCL's best interest and welfare to attempt some informal decision making arrangement. The Tribunal saw the need for formal financial management and guardianship orders. The Tribunal set out its reasons for coming to that conclusion on the remainder of page 11 and page 12.
The Appeal Panel expressed a view about what it means to take into account the various factors in s 4 and s 14 in the decision of WL v NSW Trustee and Guardian [2011] NSWADTAP 22 at  [75] and [76]:
That reasoning applies equally in this case. To say that the Tribunal must observe various principles does not mean that the Tribunal is bound, for example, to make a decision which restricts a person's freedom of decision and freedom of action as little as possible. Other considerations, including the capacity of the person and the practicality of providing services to that person, are also relevant. 
The Guardianship Tribunal went into considerable detail to express the various factors in s 4 and s 14(2), to take those factors into account and to weigh them against other relevant considerations. A reading of the Tribunal's decision as a whole satisfies us that the Tribunal was not only mindful of those principles when it made its decision but applied those principles to the particular facts of the case. We conclude, in those circumstances, that the Tribunal has made no error of law on that count.
The next ground of appeal was that the Tribunal failed to take into account conflicting views expressed at the hearing as to BCL's capacity to manage his affairs. With respect, we do not agree with that submission. The Tribunal carefully took into account the differing views as to BCL's capacity that were in evidence before the Tribunal. The Tribunal had evidence from a geriatrician, from an occupational therapist, from BCL himself and from his daughters and colleague. Again, a reading of the Tribunal's decision satisfies us that the conflicting views, especially those of BCL that he was able to live independently, were taken into account by the Tribunal. Taking those views into account does not mean that the Tribunal was obliged to accept that evidence when there was conflicting evidence from expert witnesses. 
The third ground of appeal is that the Tribunal gave considerable weight to the evidence of a geriatrician, Dr Kinchington, but failed to enquire of BCL's general practitioner, Dr Alterator, as to his assessment of BCL's capacity. Our understanding of the Guardianship Tribunal's procedures is that there is an investigation team, which contacts parties and talks to them about evidence that would be relevant. It would have been open to BCL, and his legal representative, to obtain a report from the general practitioner. Instead, BCL chose to rely on expert evidence from a geriatrician, even though that witness had only known or been involved with BCL's care for some six months. 
We appreciate that Dr Alterator had known BCL for a considerably longer period, but the Guardianship Tribunal does not err by failing to ensure that a medical report from a general practitioner is before it. That is the case particularly in circumstances where the expertise of a geriatrician was available to the Tribunal.
The fourth ground of appeal is that the Tribunal gave inadequate reasons for its decision on a particular point. That point was that the Guardianship Tribunal did not explain why it was not satisfied that the two individuals appointed as financial managers would not also be suitable persons to be appointed as guardians. 
Subject to some exceptions which are not applicable to these proceedings, the Guardianship Tribunal has a duty to provide each party with "formal written reasons" for its decisions: Guardianship Act, s 68(1B). But no decision of the Tribunal will be invalid because of any informality or want of form: s 68(2). At common law there is a judicial duty to give adequate reasons: Soulemezis v Dudley (Holdings) Pty Ltd  (1987) 10 NSWLR 247 at 269-70. That duty applies to tribunals as well as courts: Absolon v NSW TAFE [1999] NSWCA 311 at  [66]. 
In Beale v Government Insurance Office of New South Wales (1997) 48 NSWLR 430 Meagher JA set out three fundamental elements of a statement of reasons: 
In this case the Guardianship Tribunal gave adequate reasons in each of those three areas. The reasons for their finding that BCL's daughter was not a suitable person to be the guardian were set out at pp 13 and 14 of the Tribunal's decision. The reason that the Tribunal did not consider BLC's colleague as a potential candidate to be the guardian for BCL was that he did not indicate that he was prepared to accept such an appointment. As the Tribunal noted at page 14 of its decision:
The other grounds of appeal have already been considered. For example, Mr Braine, representing BCL, says that the Guardianship Tribunal did not set out how it was in BCL's best interests to appoint different people as financial managers and guardians. As we have pointed out, the Tribunal set out carefully reasoned arguments based on the evidence as to why the Public Guardian was the only suitable and available person to be appointed as BCL's guardian.
That brings us to the application of the appellant for leave for the appeal to extend to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. That application was based on a submission supported by some evidence that BCL's capacity had significantly improved since the Guardianship Tribunal's decision in 2013. The appellant tendered evidence from BCL's general practitioner, Dr Alterator, dated 19 February 2014 which expressed the view that BCL "could now be returned to the community and be able to manage his own financial, medical and accommodation affairs."
In his submissions to the Tribunal Mr Braine also lists other evidence on which he relies as further or fresh evidence before the Appeal Panel. Those matters include a letter from Ms Shirley Way as to the unsuitability of BCL's current placement in the aged care facility. The assessment was made on 12 February 2014. Mr Braine also tendered evidence of BCL's colleague (one of the joint financial managers) to the effect that BCL is competent to reside independently with minimal assistance. Finally, Mr Braine drew attention to the financial manager's view that he is able to conduct the role of financial manager without the assistance of BCL's daughter and is also prepared to undertake the duty of sole financial manager.
The grounds on which the Tribunal would extend an appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision have been frequently quoted in previous decisions. The main authority is the Supreme Court decision in K v K (2000) NSWSC 1052. In that case Young J observed at [15] that:
The appellant in this case does not make that submission. Rather the submission is that evidence obtained after the Guardianship Tribunal's hearing now indicates some regained capacity on the part of BCL. In the course of discussion with Mr Braine he conceded that if the Appeal Panel extends the appeal to the merits of the Guardianship Tribunal's decision, the Tribunal's role is to re-hear the matter rather than conduct a new hearing.
There are several authorities which set out the principles on which the Appeal Panel would consider an application for admission of further or fresh evidence. But all those decisions make it clear that the further or fresh evidence would have to relate to the Tribunal's decision at first instance and have been evidence which was relevant at that time to that decision. In particular, we note the principles set out in Building Professionals Board v Hans (2008) NSWADTAP 13, at [53] and following where the Tribunal makes the following point at [54]:
A similar conclusion was expressed by the New South Wales Court of Criminal Appeal in a decision of Gianoutsos v Glykis (2006) NSWCCA 137 drawn to the attention of the Appeal Panel by Mr Braine. In that case the Court reviewed the decisions in relation to the admissibility of further or fresh evidence and quoted at [37] the principle set out in CDJ v VAKJ [1998] HCA 67;  (1998) 197 CLR 172, 201-202:
It is the decision at first instance that the Appeal Panel must examine. It is not relevant to an examination of that decision whether the circumstances have changed since that time. For that reason leave is refused for the appeal to extend to the merits of the decision and the appeal is dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########17
STATUTORY INTERPRETATION - meaning of 'appealable decision' in s 112Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW)
Mr Beer has appealed to the Appeal Panel against two decisions of the Tribunal. The first decision was that the Commissioner of Police did not hold certain documents that Mr Beer had applied for under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009
In relation to the substantive decision Mr Beer's grounds of appeal are that: (1) the Tribunal incorrectly found that he believed that he has been under surveillance by unidentified or retired police officers since 1972; and (2) the Tribunal breached his privacy or otherwise treated him inappropriately by including a reference in its decision to the alleged offence about which Mr Beer had been questioned by police in 1972. 
In relation to the anonymisation decision Mr Beer's grounds of appeal are that: (1) s 15A of the Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act 1987
On 1 January 2014 the Administrative Decisions Tribunal was abolished and its jurisdiction was taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT). This appeal was lodged on 30 October 2013 but not heard until 12 March 2014. In accordance with the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, Sch 1, cll 6 and 8, this appeal is a "pending proceeding" and the provisions of the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009
As a party to proceedings in which an 'appealable decision' was made, Mr Beer has the right to appeal on "questions of law". He also asks for permission (or 'leave') to appeal against the merits of the Tribunal's decisions: ADT Act, s 113(2). 
The background to the proceedings is set out in the Tribunal's anonymisation decision at [1]-[2]:
At paragraphs [26] and [27] of the substantive decision, the Tribunal wrote that:
The discussion about the unidentified man referred to in [26] and [27] of the Tribunal's decision allegedly took place during what is known as a "planning meeting" at the Tribunal. Those meetings are not recorded.
Mr Beer says that the Tribunal's finding, that he believes that he has been under surveillance, is untrue and prejudicial to him. He denies saying words to that effect in any of the Tribunal's planning meetings. Mr Beer agrees that at the second planning meeting there were discussions about a photograph of a man who he says was watching him and that the Judicial Member must have either misheard what he said about the photograph or misunderstood the point he was making about the activity shown in the photograph. There was no other evidence as to what was said at the planning meeting. 
Mr Beer does not seek to set aside the Tribunal's decision. He merely requests that the allegedly mistaken finding be deleted or corrected. 
Mr Beer has the right to appeal against an "appealable decision" as defined in section 112: s ADT Act, 113 (1). Section 112 provided that:
The Appeal Panel considered the meaning of an "appealable decision" in the context of a reviewable decision in AF v HealthQuest (GD)  [2009] NSWADTAP 42 at  [101]:
The statement to which Mr Beer has objected is neither an interlocutory nor a final decision. It is merely a finding of fact. As Mr Beer's appeal does not relate to an "appealable decision", the appeal on this ground is dismissed.
Even if Mr Beer's appeal is in relation to an 'appealable decision' we refuse his application for leave for the appeal to extend to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. Mr Beer agreed that the Tribunal's finding in relation to his belief that he was under surveillance had no bearing on the Tribunal's final decision. That decision affirmed the decision of the Commissioner of Police that he did not 'hold' the documents Mr Beer had requested. 
Section 87 of the ADT Act provided that the Tribunal may correct an "obvious error in the text of the decision". The reference to Mr Beer's belief that he was under surveillance is not an "obvious error" of the kind contemplated in that provision. 
The second ground of appeal in relation to the substantive decision was that the Tribunal mentioned in its reasons at [1], the kind of offence about which Mr Beer said he had been interviewed by two police officers in 1972. Mr Beer objected to the inclusion of this reference firstly because he had been under the age of 18 at the time and secondly because he disclosed this information at what he understood to be a "preliminary conference." The Tribunal is prevented by s 74(4)(a) of the ADT Act from taking into account any "words spoken or acts done at a conference" at such a conference unless the parties agree. 
The kind of offence about which Mr Beer said he had been interviewed is a factual finding, not an "appealable decision". Mr Beer does not challenge the Tribunal's decision affirming the decision of the Commissioner of Police that the NSW Police Force did not hold the documents he had requested. On that basis this ground of appeal fails. 
If that is not correct, and Mr Beer has appealed against an "appealable decision" we will address Mr Beer's first point (that he was under 18 years of age at the time) when considering his grounds of appeal with respect to the Tribunal's refusal to anonymise his name in the reasons for decision. 
As to his second point (taking into something said at a preliminary conference) s 74 of the ADT Act is irrelevant because a planning meeting is not a preliminary conference. A planning meeting is described in the Guideline applicable at the time (Reviews Under the Government information (Public Access) Act: Guideline) as giving the parties an opportunity to:
The Guideline refers to the option of a "formal preliminary conference under s 74 of the ADT Act" following a planning meeting. In McGuirk v Vice-Chancellor, University of New South Wales  [2009] NSWADTAP 43 at  [45] to [55] the Tribunal concluded that a planning meeting is not a preliminary conference under s 74. We agree with and adopt the reasoning and conclusion in that case. 
If that conclusion is incorrect, the nature of the alleged offence was in evidence before the Tribunal from another source. Mr Beer disclosed the nature of the allegation to the NSW Police Force in his application for access to the documents he sought. The Information Commissioner also referred to Mr Beer's application for documents and identified the nature of the alleged offence in her report dated 2 November 2012. This document was in evidence before the Tribunal and the Appeal Panel. Consequently, whether or not Mr Beer disclosed the information in a planning meeting or preliminary conference, that information was in evidence. The Tribunal is entitled to have regard to material before it including any relevant factual material: ADT Act, s 63. 
We agree with Mr Beer that the Tribunal could have chosen not to include information about the nature of the alleged offence in its reasons for decision. But doing so does not constitute an error of law. 
On 30 May 2013, after the Tribunal had reserved its decision, Mr Beer applied for the decision to be anonymised. In that letter, Mr Beer said:
The general rule is that proceedings before the Tribunal are to be determined by holding a hearing that is open to the public: ADT Act s75(1). The Tribunal has discretion, if it is satisfied that "it is desirable to do so" to prohibit the disclosure of the name of a party: s 75(2)(b). 
In response to Mr Beer's submission, the Tribunal concluded that:
As an aside, Mr Beer contended that these paragraphs infer that he was deceitful or lying to the Tribunal because the Tribunal used the words, "sought to characterise". That is not our understanding of those words. 
We refused Mr Beer's informal application at the end of the hearing to further amend his grounds of appeal to claim that these paragraphs in the Tribunal's decision demonstrate actual or apprehended bias on the part of the Judicial Member. Mr Beer was given an adequate opportunity to formulate his grounds of appeal and it would have been procedurally unfair to allow him to amend those grounds orally at the end of the hearing. 
Alternatively, Mr Beer submitted that s 15A of the Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act 1987
Because Mr Beer was not represented by a lawyer, and the anonymisation decision was made 'on the papers' under s 76 of the ADT Act, we allowed him to re-open his case so that he could submit that this provision prohibited the publication of his name.
Contrary to Mr Beer's submission, s 15A does not apply to proceedings in the Tribunal. Under s 4(a), Part 2 of the Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act (which includes s 15A) applies to "any court that exercises criminal jurisdiction". The Tribunal does not exercise criminal jurisdiction. Even if it did, being questioned by police officers about the possible commission of an offence is not "criminal proceedings" within the meaning of that term in s 15A of the Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act. 
Finally, Mr Beer submitted that when determining whether to anonymise his name under s 75(2)(b) of the ADT Act, the Tribunal failed to take into account the public policy considerations reflected in the Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act 1987
It is a fundamental principle of law that in exercising discretionary power, a decision maker must take into account relevant considerations and must not take into account irrelevant considerations. The leading Australian case in this area is Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend Ltd (1985-1986) 162 CLR 25. The principles as set out by Mason J at 39 that are applicable in this case include that the ground of failure to take into account a relevant consideration can only be made out if a decision-maker fails to take into account a consideration which he or she is bound to take into account in making that decision. 
Because any policy considerations under the Children (Criminal Proceedings) Act are not matters that the Tribunal was bound to take into account when considering an application under s 75(2)(b), the Tribunal has not made an error of law.  (1) The appeal against the Tribunal's decision in Beer v Commissioner of Police NSW Police Force [2013] NSWADT 243 is dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########18
STATUTORY INTERPRETATION - meaning of homosexual vilification provisions -s 49ZT Anti-Discrimination Act 1977 - meaning of 'public act' - identificationof relevant audience for incitement
Mr Margan has appealed against a decision of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal in relation to two incidents several days apart during which the respondent, Mr Manias, verbally attacked and later physically attacked him. The Tribunal found that the first of these incidents constituted homosexual vilification in breach of the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977
Mr Manias did not appear before the Tribunal at first instance or before the Appeal Panel on the appeal. We are satisfied that on 16 December 2013 he was served with a notice at his last known place of address specifying the date and time of the hearing. We heard the appeal in his absence.
Mr Margan lodged the appeal on 16 September 2013 in relation to a decision of the Tribunal handed down on 7 August 2013. The matter was first listed before the Appeal Panel on 13 December 2013 when an application for adjournment was granted. On 1 January 2014 the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT) was abolished and its jurisdiction was taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT). In accordance with Schedule 1 to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), these proceedings are 'pending', 'part-heard' proceedings. The members of the ADT who constituted the tribunal before 1 January 2014 are to continue to hear and determine the matter sitting as NCAT. The provisions of the Administrative Decisions Act 1997 continue to apply.
Section 49 ZT(1) of the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977
This appeal concerns two incidents that took place between Mr Margan and Mr Manias - one on, or shortly before, 9 August 2010 which we will refer to as 'the physical conduct', and one on an unspecified date in the week before 9 August 2010 which we will refer to as 'the verbal conduct'. 
The Tribunal accepted Mr Margan's evidence about what happened on these two occasions. The verbal conduct occurred when Mr Margan was putting up same sex marriage posters along Oxford Street, Darlinghurst. Mr Manias was following him and appeared to be keeping pace with him even when he stopped to put up a poster. Mr Margan heard Mr Manias shouting the following comments, 
The physical conduct, which occurred on 9 August 2010, also involved Mr Manias. Mr Margan was walking along Oxford Street, Darlinghurst at about 10.30 pm after attending a meeting in the area. When he was outside the 7- Eleven convenience store he felt something swish past his head. His statement goes on to state:
Mr Manias was convicted of various assault offences relating to this and other incidents which occurred on the same night. He was sentenced to imprisonment for 18 months. 
The Tribunal accepted that Mr Margan is homosexual and has standing to lodge the complaint of homosexual vilification: s 88. 
Mr Margan submitted to the Tribunal that although the verbal conduct and the physical conduct took place on different days, they constituted one public act. A public act is defined in s 49ZS:
Mr Margan submitted that Mr Manias' verbal conduct and physical conduct should be regarded as 'combined' because: (a) these two instances of conduct occurred in the same location: Oxford Street, Darlinghurst;
The Tribunal was not persuaded by these arguments and found that the verbal conduct and the physical conduct were two separate public acts.
In relation to the meaning of 'incite' in s 49ZT the Tribunal referred (at [40] to [43]) to the decision of the Court of Appeal in Sunol v Collier (No 2)  [2013] NSWCA 196. The Tribunal concluded in light of that decision that the correct approach is to determine whether the public act is capable (or has the effect) of inciting hatred, serious contempt for or serious ridicule of homosexuals in an ordinary member of the class to whom it is directed. 
When considering the verbal conduct, the Tribunal found that the words said by Mr Manias in a loud voice on Oxford Street had the capacity or effect of inciting ordinary members of the audience to which they were directed (that is the general public) to feel hatred and/or serious contempt for Mr Margan and for homosexual men generally on the ground of their homosexuality. The Tribunal ordered Mr Manias to pay $1000 by way of damages and to publish an apology in the Sydney Star Observer, a local newspaper for the gay and lesbian community.
But in relation to the physical conduct, the Tribunal was not satisfied that there was any incitement of the relevant kind. The Tribunal's reasons for reaching that conclusion can be briefly summarised as follows: (1) At the time of the assault Mr Manias did not say anything that would have encouraged onlookers to have negative feelings about homosexuals.
Mr Margan identified three grounds of appeal on questions of law and also sought leave to appeal against the merits of the Tribunal's decision. Mr Margan can appeal as of right on a question of law but needs the Tribunal's leave before he can appeal against the merits of the Tribunal's decision: ADT Act, s 113. In relation to appeals on questions of law, the Appeal Panel may make such orders as it thinks appropriate in light of its decision: ADT Act, s 114. In relation to appeals on the merits, the Tribunal may decide to affirm, vary or set aside the decision and make a decision in substitution for the decision set aside: s 115. Finally, Mr Margan asked the Appeal Panel to make an order for costs both in relation to the proceedings at first instance and the appeal. 
The first ground of appeal, which Mr Margan referred to as 'contextual analysis', was that the Tribunal erred by treating the verbal and physical conduct as two separate events instead of one entire event. Alternatively, even if the two incidents were two separate events, the physical conduct should have been analysed in the context of the fact that the verbal conduct had taken place. 
The only question of law we can glean from this ground of appeal is that the Tribunal erred by treating the verbal conduct and the physical conduct as two separate public acts as defined in s 49ZS rather than as one act. An assertion that "the physical conduct should have been analysed in the context of the fact that the verbal conduct had taken place" does not identify a question of law but it does overlap with the second ground of appeal which is addressed below. 
The Tribunal noted at [31] that one of Mr Margan's main submissions was that the two events should be regarded as a single public act. He based that submission on the following points summarised by the Tribunal at [33]:
The Tribunal rejected that submission referring to the decision of JM & JN v QL & QM [2010] NSWADT 66 where the Tribunal treated as separate 'public acts' each of a series of alleged incidents in which the two respondents made loud derogatory comments about the applicants, referring to their homosexuality, in a public place.
In this case the verbal conduct and the physical conduct occurred several days apart although the exact period is unknown. The Tribunal did not err by regarding them as two separate public acts. We do not accept Mr Margan's submission that treating the two incidents as distinct is "an overtly technical separation and defeats the legislation's intention." There is no basis in the legislation for requiring 'one analysis' of these two acts. We also reject Mr Margan's submission that the events should be regarded as a 'course of conduct'. The 'public act' must be a 'communication to the public' including conduct observable by the public. While a communication may take place on more than one occasion, it is a question of fact to determine whether each occasion constitutes a separate public act.
Mr Margan also mentioned in submissions relating to this ground of appeal that the respondent could have adduced evidence about his intentions at the time or relied on defences available under s 49ZT(2) of the Anti-Discrimination Act. According to Mr Margan, the Tribunal "should not have considered alternative hypotheses to his claim if no such arguments were pressed." This ground of appeal, if it is a separate ground, does not disclose an error of law because there is no onus on Mr Manias to prove that he has not breached the Anti-Discrimination Act. The legal burden of proof is on the applicant to prove his or her case on the balance of probabilities. Having the burden of proof means that, after hearing all the evidence, if the decision maker is not satisfied as to a particular fact in issue, the party with the burden of proof on that issue will fail. In addition, the fact that Mr Manias did not rely on any defences is irrelevant to the question of whether Mr Margan has substantiated his complaint. 
The second ground, referred to as 'the theoretical test', was that the Tribunal erred when determining whether the physical conduct incited hatred because it excluded the hypothetical ordinary person's knowledge of both the prior verbal comments and Mr Margan's homosexuality. 
This ground raises a question of law, or at least a mixed question of fact and law, because it asserts that the hypothetical ordinary member of the public who saw the physical conduct should be taken to have known about other events. According to Mr Margan, an ordinary member of that audience viewing the physical conduct would have known firstly about the earlier verbal conduct and secondly that Mr Margan is homosexual because he was putting up gay marriage posters at the time. 
In the reasons for decision the Tribunal set out the test for incitement articulated by Bathurst CJ in Sunol v Collier (No 2)  [2013] NSWCA 196 at  [26]- [34] and [41]. At [41] Bathurst CJ provided the following summary of the principle when determining whether a public act incites the relevant emotion:
At [34] Bathurst CJ explained his preference for the term "ordinary member" of the class, rather than an "ordinary reasonable" member or simply a "reasonable member":
Mr Margan accepted that the relevant test when considering incitement is whether the public act has the capacity or effect of inciting the ordinary member of the audience to whom the public act is directed, to hatred, serious contempt or severe ridicule of a person or group of people on the ground of their homosexuality. His point was that, in relation to the physical conduct, the ordinary member of that class would have been aware of the verbal conduct and would have known by the fact that Mr Margan was putting up gay marriage posters that he is homosexual. The basis for this view was threefold:  (1) in cases of provocation, an ordinary person's sensitivity to sexual abuse is relevant: Green v R  [1997] HCA 50; (1997) 191 CLR 344;  (2) there was no doubt about the factual circumstances of the verbal conduct and the physical conduct and on both occasions the conduct took place in public; and (3) both parties had knowledge of each incident. 
In relation to the first point, the test for provocation involves asking whether an 'ordinary person' in the position of the accused could have been deprived of the power of self-control to the extent of inducing him or her to form an intent to kill or inflict grievous bodily harm. In Green v R, McHugh J stated at 369 that '[a]ll of the accused's attendant circumstances and sensitivities are relevant in determining the effect of the provocation on an ordinary person in the position of the accused'. In particular the ordinary person's sensitivity to sexual abuse is relevant. 
This case does not advance Mr Margan's submission that the 'ordinary person' in relation to a complaint of homosexual vilification should be assumed to know about something that took place in the same vicinity days earlier. The issue is whether the particular public act has the capacity or effect of inciting ordinary members of the audience to which they were directed (that is the general public) to feel hatred and/or serious contempt for Mr Margan and for homosexual men generally on the ground of their homosexuality.
The audience in relation to any public act is the person or group of people to whom the public act is directed. That person in this case is a hypothetical member of the public who was a witness to the public act: Jones v Trad [2013] NSWCA 389 at  [63]. That person may be taken to be aware of significant current affairs and events. But the hypothetical onlooker is not omniscient. He or she is not deemed to know about other events that have taken place between the same two people on another occasion even if those events took place in public. The Tribunal did not make an error of law in relation to what was in the mind of hypothetical members of the audience. 
The third ground, referred to as 'independent operation' was that the Tribunal should have found that the assault itself had the capacity or effect of inciting ordinary members of the audience to which they were directed (that is the general public in the vicinity of Oxford Street at the time) to feel hatred and/or serious contempt for Mr Margan and for homosexual men generally on the ground of their homosexuality. While we are unable to identify a question of law in this ground of appeal, we will nevertheless explain why, in our view, it is misconceived. 
Mr Margan made the point that a public act need not involve any verbal communication. It includes 'conduct observable by the public'. The Tribunal accepted that proposition. 
Mr Margan has misunderstood the Tribunal's reasoning when he says that it decided that vilification generally requires an 'articulated homophobic intention'. The Tribunal's decision was not based on a finding of lack of intention on Mr Manias' part. It was based on an objective finding that the conduct did not have the capacity or effect of inciting hatred or serious contempt in a hypothetical ordinary member of the public. Mr Margan acknowledged in other parts of his submissions that the alleged perpetrator's intention is irrelevant. Contrary to Mr Margan's submission, the Tribunal did not find that the physical conduct had to be accompanied by verbal comments to link the attack with Mr Margan's homosexuality.
We accept that one of the Tribunal's reasons for finding that there had been no incitement in relation to the physical conduct was that Mr Manias did not say anything that would have encouraged onlookers to have negative feelings about homosexuals. But there were several other reasons for that conclusion including those set out by the Tribunal at [59]-[62]: 
The incitement must be 'on the ground of' homosexuality. Mr Margan needed to demonstrate a connection between the physical conduct and his homosexuality. The Tribunal did not err in finding that, in the circumstances of this case, there was insufficient evidence of such a connection. 
We have found no error of law but that does not prevent the Appeal Panel from considering whether leave should be granted under section 113(2)(b) of the ADT Act for the appeal to extend to the merits of the Tribunal's decision: Lloyd v Veterinary Surgeons Investigating Committee [2005] NSWCA 456. 
Mr Margan's reasons for asking the Tribunal to extend the appeal to the merits were so that the Appeal Panel could re-assess the damages of $1000 which he regarded as unreasonably small given the impact that the conduct had on him and the loss he suffered. He also said that the jurisdictional limit has been raised from $40,000 to $100,000 so awards of damages should be increased proportionately. Finally, because Mr Manias has not apologised, the Appeal Panel should order that, in default of compliance with that order, further damages should be awarded.
Mr Margan pointed to other proceedings where significantly higher damages had been awarded. In Carter v Brown [2010] NSWADT 109 (6 May 2010) for example, the Tribunal awarded the applicants a total of $35,000 for complaints of homosexual vilification and victimisation. The Tribunal's reasoning is summarised at [166]: 
Damages under s 108(2)(a) of the Anti-Discrimination Act are to be assessed on the basis that they are awarded to compensate the person for loss or damage suffered as a result of the unlawful act. While the equivalent principles within tort and contract law provide a guide, they are not 'controlling': Commissioner of Police, NSW Police v Mooney (No 3) (EOD)  [2004] NSWADTAP 22 at  [23 - 27], [48]). The cases provide very little guidance on the approach to be adopted where there is no economic loss and damages are to compensate for injury to feelings. 
Given that the incident for which the Tribunal awarded Mr Margan $1,000 took place on a single occasion and the Tribunal found at [69] that the words were only address "in part" to Mr Margan, we are not persuaded on the basis of the much higher awards of damages in Carter v Brown, that we should interfere with the Tribunal's assessment. Because the Tribunal did not find that the second incident constituted homosexual vilification, no damages were awarded in relation to that incident. As the Tribunal explained at [67] and [68]: 
The fact that the jurisdictional limit has been raised from $40,000 to $100,000 is irrelevant. The compensatory principle must be applied. 
Finally, Mr Margan submitted that the Tribunal should have made an order under s 108(7):
The provisions referred to in s 108(7) include an order that the respondent publish an apology. There is no provision for default orders where the respondent does not pay damages. 
It would have been open for the Tribunal to make a default order for payment of an amount in damages if the respondent failed to apologise as ordered. That is a discretionary matter for the Tribunal to determine. The Tribunal did not make an error of law in deciding not to do so, nor do we consider that its failure to do so justifies extending the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. 
Mr Margan sought to tender fresh evidence in relation to the attitudes of ordinary members of the public to homosexuals and to make submissions based on that evidence. The evidence was said to be relevant because of the findings of the Court of Appeal in Jones v Trad [2013] NSWCA 389, a decision handed down in November 2013, about three months after the Tribunal's decision at first instance. In that case the Court considered the meaning of the word "incite" in relation to s 20C(1), the relevantly identical racial vilification provision: Jones v Trad [2013] NSWCA 389. Ward JA, with whom Gleeson JA and Emmett JA agreed, considered at [53] that the "nub of the dispute in the present case goes to the identification, or more precisely the contended absence thereof, of the relevant audience to which the . . . broadcast was directed."
The Court concluded at [61] to [63] that the Tribunal at first instance had erred in law. The first error was failing to make a finding identifying the audience in relation to which the likely effect of the public act could be assessed. The second error was failing to consider the likely effect of the public act on an ordinary member of that audience. Her Honour quoted Bathurst CJ's view in Sunol v Collier (No 2) that the decision maker should consider the particular class to whom the speech or other public act is directed. 
Given this decision, Mr Margan sought to tender fresh evidence identifying the relevant audience. 
Section 49ZT(1) relates to public acts. By definition, the relevant audience is members of the public. The purpose of identifying the particular audience is so that the likely effect of the public act on a hypothetical, ordinary member of that audience can be assessed. Attributes or characteristics of the audience which may inform an assessment of the likely effect of the public act are relevant but there is no requirement that, in order for a complaint to be substantiated, formal evidence must be adduced of those matters. Similarly, a complaint will not fail merely because an applicant does not identify the number of people who became aware of the public act or where they were located in New South Wales when that happened. 
The Tribunal at first instance found at [49] and [61] that the relevant audience was ordinary members of the public. The Tribunal correctly assumed that those members of the public were people 'hearing' the words spoken on the first occasion and 'observing the assault' on the second occasion (See [49] and [58]). The Tribunal identified the relevant audience and considered the likely effect of the public act on an ordinary member of that audience. The Tribunal also made the point at [62] that it is the reaction of hypothetical, not actual, observers that is being assessed.
In relation to the admission of further evidence, the Appeal Panel has summarised the relevant principles in Building Professionals Board v Hans (GD)  [2008] NSWADTAP 13 (12 March 2008) at [52] to [57]. The second of those principles is the most relevant to this case: 
Mr Margan did not tender any evidence at first instance in relation to the demographic composition of the hypothetical audience or the attitudes that such members would have to homosexuality. But we do not understand the Court of Appeal in Jones v Trad [2013] NSWCA 389 to have decided that a complaint of vilification cannot be substantiated unless such evidence is adduced. The test is to be applied to an ordinary 'hypothetical' member of that audience.
In any case, Mr Margan has not persuaded us that if this evidence had been before the Tribunal it was 'likely to have produced a different result'. 
In relation to the first incident, the Tribunal found that the following words, in context, constituted homosexual vilification:
Regardless of the particular demographic characteristics or attitudes of a hypothetical person in Oxford Street at the time, the words would have 'reached the mind' of an ordinary member of that audience as something which would encourage the requisite emotion. The question is not whether a person would have hated or had severe contempt for homosexuals after hearing those words. The question is whether the words would have the effect of inciting or encouraging the requisite emotion. 
The Tribunal's decision in relation to the physical conduct was based on a finding at [55] that there was no incitement of the relevant kind. Regardless of the particular demographic characteristics or attitudes of a hypothetical person in Oxford Street at the time, the conduct would not have 'reached the mind' of an ordinary member of that audience as something which would encourage the requisite emotion. That is because of the context in which that conduct occurred. Mr Manias did not say anything about homosexuals at the time, he assaulted five victims on that night, seemingly at random and there was no evidence that Mr Manias recognised Mr Margan. Even if there had been evidence as to the demographic composition or attitudes of a hypothetical ordinary member of the audience, the Tribunal's decision would have been the same. 
For these reasons the Appeal Panel refuses leave for Mr Margan to adduce further evidence on appeal.
Even though he did not make a formal application for costs at first instance, Mr Margan applied to the Appeal Panel both for those costs and for his costs on appeal. We are satisfied that the Appeal Panel has jurisdiction to make an order in relation to costs at first instance even if no such application was made at the time: B & L Linings Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (No 5) (RD)  [2010] NSWADTAP 21 (6 April 2010) at [75]. We also find that although Mr Margan was not legally represented in either proceedings he is entitled to claim costs such as filing fees and photocopying. For a recent review of the principles that may apply to an application for costs and expenses by a litigant in person, see Tuffy v Vaughan & ors. (No 2)  [2009] NSWADT 242.
The Tribunal may award costs under section 88 of the ADT Act in respect of proceedings before the Tribunal in relation to a complaint. 
Section 88(1) reflects the principle that each party is to bear its own costs. Unlike the situation in some other jurisdictions, the winner cannot expect to receive his or her legal costs from the loser. The Tribunal may only vary this principle if it considers it 'fair to do so' having regard to the matters in s 88(1A). The reasons Mr Margan gave for applying for costs were that the respondent gave a 'fraudulent address' for service.
Even if Mr Manias provided a false address, costs are not to be awarded as a penalty for bad behaviour. The Tribunal has previously acknowledged that the costs power should not be used as a "sanction to punish agencies for poor administration": Raethel -v- Director-General, Department of Education and Training [2000] NSWADT 56 at  [57]. Similarly, it should not be used as a sanction to punish applicants for any improper conduct unless that conduct has led to the other party incurring unnecessary costs. 
As well as his expenses associated with the proceedings, Mr Margan submitted that the Appeal Panel should award: (1) the costs of enforcing the Tribunal's decision that the respondent pay him $1,000 in damages in the sum of $10,000; and
Neither of these matters is a proper subject for a costs order. 
Mr Margan made no submissions as to why it would be fair to award costs on appeal and we decline to do so.
############# I'm default separator ##########19
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -extension of time in which to appeal - exercise of discretion
The appellant is a tenant of residential premises in Dubbo. She has sought an extension of time in which to appeal against orders made by the Tribunal in application SH 14/02239 on 30 January 2014 (Original Orders). The Original Orders included orders terminating the residential tenancy agreement and requiring possession to be given on 7 February 2014 to the landlord, New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation, the respondent in the present proceedings. 
For the reasons given below, the Appeal Panel has concluded that the application for an extension of time in which to appeal should be dismissed and consequential orders dismissing the appeal and lifting the stay of the Original Orders should be made. Although this appeal may have been overtaken by subsequent proceedings between the same parties, the Appeal Panel has taken the opportunity presented by this matter to set out some of the principles that apply in relation to applications for extensions of time in which to appeal from a decision of a Division of the Tribunal to the Appeal Panel, how those principles are to be applied in the present matter and other related considerations. 
After a hearing on 30 January 2014, the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal ordered that the appellant's residential tenancy agreement with the respondent be terminated on the ground that the appellant had breached the agreement by causing or permitting a nuisance or by interfering, or causing or permitting interference with the reasonable peace and comfort and privacy of neighbours. The Tribunal had jurisdiction to make the Original Orders by virtue of the provisions of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) (RT Act).
The appellant (the respondent below) did not appear at the hearing of the matter on 30 January 2014. The record of the hearing before the Tribunal on that day included the statement that the Tribunal was satisfied that service of notice of the hearing had been duly served on the appellant. Further, the Tribunal recorded that the respondent (the applicant below) gave sworn evidence that in discussions with the appellant she confirmed she had received the Notice of Hearing. The Tribunal also noted briefly the evidence relied upon by the respondent in support of the orders then being sought.
There is no assertion in the material provided by the appellant in relation to the present appeal and related applications that the appellant did not have notice of the hearing on 30 January 2014. The appellant does not assert, and there is nothing to suggest, that the appellant made any attempt to contact the Tribunal prior to the hearing, to ask for an adjournment of the hearing, to seek to appear by telephone at the hearing or to have someone appear on her behalf. 
On 4 March 2014, the Western Aboriginal Tenants Advice and Advocacy Service lodged a Notice of Appeal on behalf of the appellant under s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act). In that notice, the appellant sought an extension of time in which to appeal, a stay of the original orders and leave to appeal. In addition, she sought to have a hearing of the appeal in Dubbo and made submissions on why she did not want any hearing of the substantive appeal to be on the papers.
The appellant indicated that she did not object to the application for an extension of time and the application for the stay being dealt with on the papers. It can also be noted that under s 50(1)(a) it is expressly provided that an application for leave to appeal in a matter such as the present may be dealt with on the papers. 
Before noting the grounds of appeal relied upon, it is important to appreciate that although the form is called a Notice of Appeal it does not necessarily mean the party is lodging an appeal as of right. The Tribunal's Notice of Appeal form allows a party seeking to appeal to complete just one form whether the party is asking for an extension of time in which to appeal, asking for leave to appeal, seeking a stay of the orders or decision appealed from or simply appealing as of right from an internally appealable decision. In addition, the form allows the party to request a hearing in a location other than Sydney and to provide other information, submissions and evidence. This course has been adopted in the Tribunal having regard to the requirement that the Tribunal act with as little formality as the circumstances of the case permit and without regard to technicalities or legal forms (s 38(4) of the Act) and the requirement that the Tribunal's practice and procedures should be implemented so as to facilitate the resolution of issues between the parties in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject matter of the proceedings (s 36(4) of the Act). Having one multipurpose form has the benefit that a person seeking to appeal from an internally appealable decision of the Tribunal only has to obtain and complete one form so that there is greatly reduced scope for procedural confusion and technical mistakes. In addition, an applicant for an extension of time or for leave to appeal does not have to file a draft notice of appeal in addition to their application. In these circumstances and for the sake of simplicity, a party completing a Notice of Appeal form is called an appellant, even if technically that party might more precisely be considered to be merely an applicant for an extension of time in which to appeal or an applicant for leave to appeal. 
The appellant's grounds of appeal which she sought to raise if her application for an extension of time and leave to appeal were successful were as follows:
On 4 March 2014 (although the orders are correctly dated, the letter notifying the parties of the orders appears to have been incorrectly dated 4 February), in response to the appellant's application for a stay, the Appeal Panel made an order staying the Original Orders in order to preserve the subject matter of the appeal pending further consideration of the various applications made in the Notice of Appeal. At the same time, directions were made as follows:
The appellant applied for an extension of time in which to comply with direction 2 and was granted an extension until 14 March 2014. A corresponding extension of time was allowed to the respondent so that it was not required to comply with direction 3 until 21 March 2014. The time for reply evidence under direction 4 was not extended. 
In the letter in which the appellant and respondent were informed of the extensions of time, the Tribunal also expressly noted that:
Notwithstanding the extension of time granted to her, the appellant did not file any submissions or evidence. The respondent provided its submissions on 20 March 2014. No evidence or submissions in reply were received from the appellant. 
The appellant properly applied for an extension of time in which to appeal in the present case by ticking the relevant box in section 13 of the Notice of Appeal form. This satisfied the requirement under rule 8 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (the Rules) that an application for an extension of time under s 41 of the Act is to be in writing.
The appellant did not ask for reasons to be given under s 62(2) of the Act. In these circumstances, rule 24(4)(b) of the NCAT Interim Rules 2014 and, after 7 February 2014, rule 25(4)(b) of the Rules required an internal appeal from a decision in a residential tenancy matter to be instituted within 14 days of the date on which the appellant was notified of the decision. The appellant stated on her Notice of Appeal that she was notified of the decision on 30 January 2014. Accordingly, she was required to lodge her appeal on or before 13 February 2014. It was not lodged until 4 March 2014. 
Section 41 of the Act permits the Tribunal to grant an extension of time and is in the following terms:
As has been noted above, the appellant expressly stated that she did not object to the application for an extension of time in which to appeal being dealt with on the papers. The respondent also raised no objection to this course. The appellant was given an opportunity in the Notice of Appeal form to provide an explanation of why the appeal was not lodged within time and to raise any relevant considerations as to why an extension of time should be granted. She also had the opportunity as a result of the directions made on 4 March 2014 to put on evidence and submissions in this regard. The respondent has filed submissions in compliance with the directions. In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the appellant and respondent have had a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered on the application for an extension of time and that the issues for determination can be adequately dealt with in the absence of the parties by considering the written submissions and other documents provided to the Panel. On these bases, the Appeal Panel considers it appropriate to make an order that an oral hearing of the application for an extension of time be dispensed with under s 50(2) of the Act. 
Under s 41, the Appeal Panel has power to grant an extension of time in which to appeal in the present matter. The discretion to grant an extension of time is unfettered under that section but it must be exercised judicially. It must also be exercised having regard to the statutory command in s 36 of the Act that the guiding principle for the Act "is to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issue in the proceedings". 
An informative exposition of the role and nature of provisions which permit a Court or Tribunal to extend the time limits established for the orderly conduct of proceedings, including the time in which to lodge an appeal, is found in the decision of McHugh J sitting as a single justice of the High Court in Gallo v Dawson [1990] HCA 30,  93 ALR 479 at  [2]:
The Courts have identified in numerous cases various factors that should be considered in deciding whether to grant an extension of time in which to appeal. Substantially the same principles have also been applied by the Appeal Panel of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT), one of the predecessors of the Tribunal, in relation to appeals in the ADT - Opera Australia Ltd v Carr [1999] NSWADTAP 6 at  [16], Chand v Rail Corporation of New South Wales No 3  [2010] NSWADTAP 11 at  [20]. These authorities provide useful guidance on the principles that are to be applied by the Appeal Panel in this regard. 
Time limits, including the specification of the time within which an appeal from an internally appealable decision to the Appeal Panel of the Tribunal must be lodged, are established by legislation for the purpose of promoting the orderly and efficient conduct of proceedings in the Tribunal, providing certainty for the parties to proceedings, especially the party in whose favour orders have been made, and achieving finality in litigation. For these reasons, these time limits should generally be strictly enforced. That is not to say, however, that exceptions should not be made where the interests of justice so require. The express power in s 41 of the Act to grant extensions of time allows the Tribunal to prevent the rigid enforcement of time limits becoming an instrument of injustice. As the decision in Gallo v Dawson quoted above makes clear, it is generally the case that in order for the power to extend time to be exercised in an appellant's favour there must be material upon which the Appeal Panel can be satisfied that to refuse the application for an extension of time would work an injustice. 
The considerations that will generally be relevant to the Appeal Panel's consideration of whether to grant an extension of time in which to lodge a Notice of Appeal include: (1) The discretion can only be exercised in favour of an applicant upon proof that strict compliance with the rules will work an injustice upon the appellant - Gallo v Dawson [1990] HCA 30,  93 ALR 479 at  [2], Nanschild v Pratt [2011] NSWCA 85 at  [38]; 
In her Notice of Appeal the appellant sought an extension of time in which to appeal. Section 13 of that notice asked the appellant to "explain why the application was not lodged within the time limit, what effect granting or not granting the extension would have on you and the Respondents and any other relevant considerations you wish the Tribunal to take into account in deciding whether or not to grant an extension of time". 
In attachment 1 to the Notice of Appeal the appellant stated:
As to the length of delay, it can be noted that it was only approximately 5 weeks. Nonetheless, it should be borne in mind that there is a very short period in which appeals may be lodged in respect of residential tenancy decisions. It is only 14 days, compared to the general position which permits a Notice of Appeal to be lodged within 28 days - see rule 25(4)(b) and (c) of the Rules. This difference reflects the nature of residential tenancy matters and the legislature's balancing of the rights of landlords and the rights of tenants. In the circumstances of this case, the length of delay does not tell substantially in favour of either granting or not granting the extension of time sought. 
As to the explanation for the delay, the information provided with the Notice of Appeal was that the WATAAS had been moving offices "over the last 3-4 months" and the appellant was only able to seek advice and assistance "recently". Apart from those assertions in the attachment to the Notice of Appeal, there was no specific material establishing when and how the appellant tried to contact the WATAAS, what responses she received, when the WATAAS actually moved or what actual impact it had on the WATAAS's ability to function and assist the appellant during the relevant period. The appellant was given the opportunity to file evidence and submissions relating to this aspect of her application. Furthermore, at the request of the WATAAS she was given a short extension of time in which to provide that material. No evidence or submissions were, however, filed. In the absence of some specific material concerning when the appellant sought the assistance of the WATAAS, when the WATAAS moved offices and the impact of the move on the WATAAS's ability to provide services to the appellant during the period from 30 January to 4 March 2014, there is no basis for the Appeal Panel to be satisfied that the appellant has provided an adequate explanation of the delay in lodging the appeal. In addition, the Panel notes that in the period between 30 January and 4 March 2014, the appellant had apparently had the time and, if it was required, assistance to lodge an application to set aside the original decision, which was rejected - see ground 2 in the grounds of appeal. No explanation was provided as to how she was able to take the step of applying to have the decision set aside but could not lodge an appeal within the required time. 
The lack of material providing an adequate explanation of the delay weighs against granting an extension of time - see Aon Risk Services Australia Limited v Australian National University [2009] HCA 27;  (2009) 239 CLR 175 at, for example, [103]. 
Turning next to whether there is any prejudice to the respondent, the Appeal Panel notes that the respondent is a governmental corporation. In one sense, it suffers little prejudice if the appellant continues to reside in the premises the subject of the original application provided the rent is paid. There is, however, a wider sense in which prejudice may be suffered in that, if the appellant is in occupation of the premises when she should have vacated them, the respondent is denied the ability to provide that accommodation to other persons who have a legitimate need for housing of the type provided by the respondent. On that basis, the Panel takes into account that there may be prejudice to the respondent's ability to provide accommodation to those who legitimately need it. As a result, this consideration also weighs against extending the time for appeal. 
Finally, the Appeal Panel should consider the appellant's prospects of success on any appeal if an extension of time were granted. The grounds of appeal have been set out in full above. In summary, the appellant's grounds are that: (1) she was not able to attend the hearing of the matter on 30 January 2014 because of Aboriginal cultural customs and obligations and consequently she had not been given the opportunity to respond to the case against her and thus she was not afforded procedural fairness (grounds 1, 2 and 3); (2) she had "significant new evidence" that she was able to present to the Tribunal in the matter (ground 4). 
As to the first summary ground of appeal, it may be accepted for the purposes of this application that Aboriginal cultural customs required the appellant to "assist [her] family with organising two funerals in separate towns 300 kms outside Dubbo". It is important for the Tribunal to ensure that persons of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander background or any other culturally or linguistically diverse background are not prejudiced in seeking access to justice through the Tribunal because of their language, customs or other relevant aspects of their culture. Nonetheless, there is a need for the Tribunal to have before it material which assists it to determine how the customs or linguistic and other cultural factors have actually affected the party's ability to obtain access to the Tribunal. 
In the present case, there was no specific information or material as to how those funerals and organising them prevented the appellant from attending the hearing on 30 January 2014. It was not a ground of appeal that the appellant did not receive notice of the hearing on 30 January 2014 or was not aware of the hearing on that date. There was simply no explanation given as to how the funerals and the relevant cultural customs might have caused the appellant to be unable to seek an adjournment, contact the Tribunal or the respondent (the applicant on the original application) and inform them of the problem or have the WATAAS or someone else appear to represent her, put evidence on or make an application for an adjournment on her behalf before or at the hearing. 
All that grounds 1, 2 and 3 seek to argue is that the appellant did not attend the hearing because of Aboriginal cultural obligations and thus was not able to respond to the case put against her. These circumstances, even if accepted on the basis of material before the Appeal Panel, do not establish that the Tribunal failed to afford her procedural fairness . Nothing in the grounds of appeal or other material put forward by the appellant suggests that the Tribunal failed to ensure that she had a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have her submissions considered and so failed to comply with s 38(5)(c) of the Act. She did not suggest that she had not been given notice of the hearing on 30 January 2014 or of what the issues were. 
Furthermore, even if s 38(5)(c) of the Act had not been complied with, the proceedings and the decision were not a nullity, by virtue of s 53(3) of the Act. The appellant's options if there had been such non-compliance would have included applying under s 53(4) of the Act or cl 9 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation 2013 (NSW) (the Regulation) for the decision to be set aside. It appears from ground 2 in the Notice of Appeal that such an application was made and rejected. 
In short, failure to attend, for whatever reason, a hearing of which the appellant had notice does not without more establish non-compliance with s 38(5)(c) by the Tribunal or a failure to afford procedural fairness. 
Therefore it appears to the Appeal Panel that the appellant has little if any prospect of success in an appeal based upon grounds 1, 2 and 3 in the Notice of Appeal. Given the other considerations which weigh against an extension of time being granted, it may be that the appellant would have to satisfy the Panel that her case has more substantial merit than merely being fairly arguable - Tomko v Palasty (No 2) [2007] NSWCA 369;  (2007) 71 NSWLR 61at [14] (per Hodgson JA, Ipp JA agreeing at [17]). In the Appeal Panel's view her case does not meet that test. Further, even if it were accepted in this case that all the appellant had to establish was that her appeal was "fairly arguable", the Panel is also not satisfied that the appellant's grounds 1, 2 and 3 raise an appeal which could be so described. 
The second summary ground was that the appellant had "significant new evidence" that she was able to present to the Tribunal in the matter. Notwithstanding the various opportunities the appellant was given to disclose what that new evidence might be, she has not done so. As a result, the Appeal Panel cannot be satisfied that there is any such evidence. 
Furthermore in this regard, on an appeal under s 80 of the Act, the appellant would not be entitled to lead any "new evidence" as of right. It is possible under s 80(3) for the Appeal Panel to decide to deal with the appeal by way of a new hearing and permit further evidence. Section 80(3) provides:
In the absence of a clear indication of what the new evidence was and an explanation of why it could not have been led at the original hearing, there does not appear to the Appeal Panel to be any appropriate basis for concluding that the appellant had any substantial prospect of her appeal being dealt with under s 80(3)(a) and (b) and being successful. Once again, an appeal based on ground 4 does not appear to the Appeal Panel to be fairly arguable, let alone have more substantial merit. 
The appellant's lack of prospects of success militates against granting an extension of time. 
Finally, in the light of all the considerations referred to above, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the appellant has not shown that strict compliance with the rules would work an injustice upon the appellant, especially given her lack of prospects of success on any of the grounds of appeal on which she relies. 
As has been noted above, the appellant has stated in her second ground of appeal that she "made an application to NCAT to have the orders made on January set aside after the matter was heard in my absence. This application was denied on the grounds that I did not make attempts to call the tribunal and/or arrange a telephone hearing." Where a decision is made in the absence of a party, the party can apply under cl 9 of the Regulation to have the decision set aside. Clause 9 provides:
It will be noted that under cl 9(5), such a set aside application cannot be made if an internal appeal against the decision has been lodged. There is no corresponding prohibition, however, on an appeal being lodged if a set aside application under cl 9 has been made. Accordingly, it is possible for a party to apply under cl 9 to have a decision set aside and subsequently to lodge an appeal against that decision. 
A cl 9 set aside application must be made within 7 days of the decision being made - cl 9(3). An internal appeal to the Appeal Panel must be lodged within 14 days, in the case of an appeal in a matter relating to a residential tenancy, or within 28 days, from the day on which the appellant was notified of the decision or given reasons for the decision (whichever is the later), except if enabling legislation establishes a different time limit for an internal appeal - see rule 25(4) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014. 
If a party applied to set aside a decision under cl 9, was unsuccessful and then lodged an internal appeal under s 80 of the Act out of time, the fact that the party had lodged an unsuccessful set aside application would not by itself justify the grant of an extension of time in which to appeal. There would need to be some additional circumstances which would lead to an injustice being worked upon the appellant if an extension of time were not granted. No additional such circumstances were identified by the appellant. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel is not prepared to grant the appellant an extension of time in which to appeal. 
Consequently, the questions of leave to appeal and where any appeal should be heard do not arise. In so far as it may be necessary to do so because of the filing of the Notice of Appeal, the appeal itself should be dismissed, being out of time. 
In these circumstances, it is also appropriate to lift the stay granted on 4 February 2013. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) That an oral hearing of the application for an extension of time in which to appeal be dispensed with under s 50(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW).
############# I'm default separator ##########20
PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE - bias -evidence of fraud - adjournment- inadequatemedical evidence - whether appeal should be determined'on the papers' withoutan oral hearing
This matter was listed for hearing before an Appeal Panel of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal on 10 April 2014. Prior to the hearing the Appellant, Ms Avery, applied for certain members to be disqualified from hearing the appeal. Those members were the members who had constituted the Appeal Panel of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal in a previous proceeding where she and the Respondent were also parties: Avery v Registry of Births Deaths and Marriages [2008] NSWADTAP 68. The Panel in that case was N Hennessy LCM, Deputy President, R Handley, Judicial Member and M Bolt, Non-Judicial Member. Mr Handley is not a member of the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal and Ms Bolt was not assigned to sit on this appeal. Magistrate Hennessy was assigned to sit on the appeal. The Appellant's application will be considered in relation to that member only.
In its written submissions dated 11 March 2014, the Respondent provided a brief chronology of the litigation between the two parties since 1997. One issue in the 2008 proceedings before the Appeal Panel was whether the Respondent should have included the name "Stephanie Tatiana Avery" as a "former name" on a Change of Name Certificate. In 2007 Ms Avery had applied to change her name to Tatiana Igorevna Orechkina. In accordance with legislative provisions, the Registrar was required to record certain particulars on the Change of Name Certificate including "any other former names of the person": Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Regulation 2006
In the 2008 decision the Appeal Panel found that the Tribunal had made an error of law by interpreting the phrase "any other former name of the person" as including a name that a person had used on occasions. The Appeal Panel decided that to be a "former name" a person must use an alternative name consistently, not merely on a few occasions. The Appeal Panel granted leave for the appeal to extend to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. It then decided that "Stephanie Tatiana Avery" was a former name. The Appeal Panel concluded that:
The Court of Appeal dismissed an appeal by Ms Avery from the Appeal Panel's decision: Avery v Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages [2010] NSWCA 72. One ground of appeal that was rejected at [121] was that there was evidence of bias in the text of the decision. 
The substantive issue in the current appeal is whether the Respondent has power to cancel a previous registration (24637/07) and issue a certificate in the same terms as an earlier registration (11367/97). The Tribunal decided that the Respondent did not have the power to cancel the registration. The Appellant has appealed against that decision.
We have assumed that the Appellant is relying on both actual bias and apprehended bias on the basis of Hennessy LCM's involvement in the previous litigation. In her application for disqualification filed on 11 February 2014, the Appellant gives the following reasons for the application: 
She alleges that in the 2008 decision the Appeal Panel affirmed the Registrar's decision knowing that the disputed record was a fraud and that the Registrar provided to Ms Avery and the Tribunal false information. Ms Avery provides particulars of those allegations. Ms Avery also speculates that having agreed with the Registrar's decision on one occasion, Hennessy LCM is likely to agree with the Registrar's decision in this case. 
The basic principles in relation to applications for recusal for bias are set out (with references omitted) in JRS Forbes, Justice in Tribunals (3rd ed 2010, The Federation Press):
The test for apprehended bias is that "... a judge is disqualified if a fair-minded lay observer might reasonably apprehend that the judge might not bring an impartial and unprejudiced mind to the resolution of the question the judge is required to decide": Ebner v Official Trustee in Bankruptcy  [2000] HCA 63;  (2000) 205 CLR 337, at [6]. In South Western Sydney Area Health Service v Edmonds [2007] NSWCA 16, McColl JA (with whom Giles and Tobias JJA agreed) said; (citations omitted)
A judicial officer should not lightly recuse herself in response to allegations of bias. Too readily acceding to such requests would subvert the judicial process by allowing litigants to, in effect, choose the person whom they feel would be most favourable to their case: Ebner v Official Trustee in Bankruptcy [2000] HCA 63 at  [19] per Gleeson CJ, McHugh, Gummow and Hayne JJ.
The Appellant has provided no evidence, apart from her own assertion for the allegations of fraud, corruption and bias. In relation to a claim of apprehended bias, we accept that a decision-maker who makes findings of fact in particular proceedings may appear to be biased if called on to decide the same issues in subsequent litigation: British American Tobacco Australia Services Ltd v Laurie (2011) 242 CLR 283;  [2011] HCA 2. But if the same factual issue arises in this case, the Appellant would be prevented from re-litigating the matter by the principle of issue estoppel. 
The present appeal concerns the power of the Respondent to cancel the registration and the appropriateness of issuing a certificate recording the registration of a previously registered name. The present appeal does not require Hennessy LCM to make findings on factual matters that were considered in the previous litigation. The Appellant's application for Hennessy LCM to disqualify herself for bias is refused.
On 7 April and again on 9 April 2014, Ms Avery, applied in writing for an adjournment. She attached a medical certificate signed by "Martin Duffy" to the 7 April application stating that she is suffering from "a medical condition" and is "unsuitable for normal duties from 7 April to 10 April 2014." She attached the same medical certificate to the 9 April application with the following words added after the words "medical condition"; "rendering patient unable to attend tribunal hearing related to serious medical condition." The words "Consultant in Emergency Medicine" and a phone number were added after the name "Martin Duffy".
The Appellant did not attend the hearing on 10 April 2014 and the Respondent opposed the application for an adjournment.
The nature of Ms Avery's medical condition and its expected duration were not clear from either of the certificates she provided. Courts have been highly critical of medical certificates purporting to support an application for adjournment which refer to "some undisclosed and undiagnosed 'medical condition' culminating in the assertion that a person is unfit to attend court or unfit for a court hearing." Such opaque evidence leaves the decision maker with no basis on which to assess the merits of the application for adjournment or to know how long it is expected that the person will continue to suffer from the condition: Magjarraj v Asteron Life Limited [2009] NSWSC 1433 at  [22]; Gray t/as Clarence Valley Plumbing Services v Ware Building Pty Ltd [2013] NSWCA 261 at  [30] - [37].
The decision to adjourn a hearing is a discretionary one. Despite the inadequacy of the medical evidence the Panel decided to adjourn the matter. 
The Appeal Panel sought submissions from the Respondent as to whether this was a case where an order should be made dispensing with a hearing: Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997
This provision, rather than s 50 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, applies because the appeal was lodged on 30 December 2013. The appeal is a 'pending proceeding' and the provisions of any Act, statutory rule or other law that would have applied to the proceedings had the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) not been enacted, continue to apply: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act, Sch 1, cl 7. 
Pursuant to s 76 of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act, the Tribunal does not need to obtain the consent of the parties before deciding to determine proceedings 'on the papers' but in this case the Tribunal did give the parties an opportunity to make submissions on that point.
The Respondent submitted that the appeal should be heard on the papers because the Appellant had filed an extremely detailed Notice of Appeal covering more than 20 pages and had also filed several applications for interlocutory decisions together with lengthy submissions. The Respondent had provided detailed written submissions in response. 
In written submissions following the adjourned hearing, the Appellant objected to the hearing being determined 'on the papers'. She also filed some 150 pages of written submissions elaborating on the grounds of appeal. 
The principles of open justice do not always require an oral hearing. That is plain from the fact that the Tribunal has power to determine proceedings without conducting a hearing in certain circumstances. The appeal does not involve disputed questions of fact. The Appellant has not sought leave to challenge findings of fact or sought to lead further evidence. We agree with the Respondent that the legal issues are not complex and, to the extent that they require explanation, they have been comprehensively dealt with in the written material filed by each party. 
English is not the Appellant's first language but she has provided detailed written submissions addressing the issues she wishes to raise. She would suffer no disadvantage in terms of the Appeal Panel understanding her submissions if the proceedings are determined on the basis of written submissions. We are satisfied that the issues for determination can be adequately determined in the absence of the parties. 
Although the Appeal Panel made no direction to do so, the Appellant has filed further material in support of her appeal. In those circumstances we direct that the Respondent file and serve any further material in reply to that material within 28 days of the date of these reasons. The Appellant has a further 14 days to file and serve any submissions in response. 
############# I'm default separator ##########21
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW -Access to Government Information - Application forreview of agency decisions relating to two separate documents- Tribunal setaside agency decisions, and remitted the application, with findings allowing agreater degree of disclosure of eachof the two documents - Applicantdissatisfied - Appeal - Extent of Tribunal's examination of relevantconsiderations favouring disclosure- Adequacy of reasons - Appealdismissed.
This appeal relates to a decision made by the General Division of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal on 7 August 2013 in respect of an application for review of agency decisions made under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 (GIPA Act): see Warren v NSW Trustee and Guardian [2013] NSWADT 178 (7 August 2013). It is governed by the provisions of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (ADT Act) as the case was commenced in that Tribunal before its abolition: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, Sch 1, cll 6,7.
The review applicant and appellant is Mr Damian Warren. He has worked for several years at the office of the NSW Trustee and Guardian (the agency) in its Client Assets Branch (CAB). In December 2011 the CEO of the agency, Ms Imelda Dodds, commissioned a review of the operation of the Branch. The reviewer, Ms Woodhouse presented her report (the Report) to Ms Dodds in April 2012. Fuller details are given in the Tribunal's reasons.
On 11 May 2012 Mr Warren received a letter from the Director General of the Attorney General's Department advising him the the department had commenced a disciplinary investigation into allegations made against him of inappropriate workplace conduct arising from the review. He was suspended from duty pending completion of the investigation. The letter set out in detail the specific allegations and the particulars relied upon, and named officers who had made complaints against Mr Warren.
As Mr Warren explained in his evidence to the Tribunal, he was surprised at this development, as he understood the review to be one that was looking at general operational or issues in the branch and the report was meant to be systemic or thematic, not one designed to record allegations and make recommendations for disciplinary action to the CEO. On 24 May 2012 he applied to the agency under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 for a copy of the Report, its recommendations and notes by Ms Woodhouse. On 4 July 2012 he was granted access to the Report, in the form of a supervised viewing of its contents. He was at liberty to make notes but not to take copies. He found that the Report did not contain any of allegations now raised against him. He was assured that he had been provided with all the documentation.
On 2 August 2012 he applied to the Tribunal for review of this decision. Following inquiries directed to the department, he was advised by letter from the Director General on 24 August 2012 that the allegations were derived from a 'supplementary report' to the Woodhouse Report. Ms Woodhouse had presented this document separately to the CEO at the meeting where she presented the Report. This event is dealt with more fully in the Tribunal's reasons. 
Mr Warren sought, understandably, to have his access application expanded to cover this document. On 2 October 2012, the Tribunal with the consent of the parties remitted the review application to the agency with a view to it making a decision on Mr Warren's request for access to the Memorandum. As we understand the situation, he was refused access (though we could not find any record of an agency decision to that effect on the Tribunal file). That decision became part of the application for review before the Tribunal. 
None of the disciplinary allegations were found substantiated. Mr Warren returned to duty early in 2013.
The Tribunal divided its consideration of the issues into three points: (1) the decision of the agency to refuse Mr Warren access to the Report other than under supervised viewing without any right to copy its contents (2) the related question of the form of access (3) the decision made by the agency refusing access to the Memorandum
The Report. As to issues (1) and (2), the Tribunal found:
The Memorandum. As to issue (3), the Tribunal found:
The Tribunal had regard to the balancing test required by the GIPA Act (see esp ss 12-15, and Commissioner, NSW Police Force v Camilleri  [2012] NSWADTAP 19). In relation to the issue of the form of access, it had regard to the applicable provision, s 72 of the Act, and made a number of observations on the interpretation of the criteria set out in s 72(2). It rejected several of the agency's submissions seeking to justify inspection access as adequate in the circumstances. 
In its final order the Tribunal formally set aside the decisions of the agency pursuant to s 63(3)(d) of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 and remitted them for reconsideration in accordance with the findings as set out in its reasons.
Mr Warren has appealed. In essence he is dissatisfied with the extent to which he has been refused access to material in the Report and the Memorandum. He has consistently stated that he is happy to have the information disclosed in a way that protects the identity of staff members. There is no cross appeal, so the dispute in relation to the form of access to the Report is resolved.
An appeal may be made in relation to a question of law, and, may with the leave of the Appeal Panel be extended to the merits: ADT Act, s 113. Mr Warren's notice of appeal filed 26 August 2013 sets out three grounds under the question of law heading. He has also applied for leave to extend the merits. In its notice of reply to the appeal filed 17 September 2013, the agency disputed that the matters raised under the question of law heading constituted errors of law, and opposed any grant of leave to extend to the merits. 
The parties have filed written submissions: appellant, 11 November 2013; respondent, 4 December 2013. In an exchange of correspondence in November 2013, the parties agreed to have the matter determined on the papers, and the Appeal Panel is satisfied that this is an appropriate course: see ADT Act, s 76. (The determination of this matter has been delayed because the presiding member was on leave between January and April 2014, a circumstance of which the parties were made aware. They were given the opportunity to apply for reconstitution, but decided not to apply.) 
Section 12(1) of the GIPA Act declares that 'there is a general public interest in favour of disclosure'. It provides further that the considerations relevant to the general public interest in disclosure are not to be seen as limited in any way by the Act: s 12(2). There is a Note to s 12(2) which sets out examples of public interest considerations.
Mr Warren submits that the Tribunal erred in law in failing to take account of certain public interest considerations in favour of disclosure (ground 1). In ground 1(a) he refers to the Tribunal's apparent failure to have regard to one of those listed as an example at para (e) of s 12(2), i.e.
In grounds 1(b) and (c) he submits that there have been contraventions of the criminal law in the way his access application was managed by the agency, and refers to two criminal offence provisions (ss 118, 120), i.e.:
He also submits (ground 2(a), (b)) that the Tribunal failed to deal with the points that make up ground 1 of his notice of appeal, which he had raised in his submissions to the Tribunal. In addition to s 12(2)(e), he also refers here to another example of a public interest consideration in favour of disclosure, s 12(2)(c), i.e.: 
In addition he submits (ground 2(c)) that the Tribunal failed to address his responses to the agency's arguments as they related to two of the public interest considerations against disclosure set out in s 14 on which it relied, i.e.:
He elaborates on these points in his written submissions. 
Error of Law and Exercise of Discretions. The Tribunal's task in review proceedings under the GIPA Act is to engage (as substitute decision-maker) in the balancing of considerations in the manner contemplated by ss 12-15. The Tribunal is called upon to make a discretionary judgment addressed to the considerations it considers relevant. There are no mandatory considerations in cases of the present kind. 
Such an exercise of discretion is only vulnerable to attack on error of law grounds if it transgresses the standards set down in the authorities that derive from the decision in House v R [1936] HCA 40;  (1936) 55 CLR 499, at 504-505 per Dixon, Evatt and McTiernan JJ. See further the discussion in Lo v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2013] NSWCA 180 at  [9] per Basten JA; Assadourian v Roads and Maritime Services (GD)  [2013] NSWADTAP 46 at  [35] ff; and recently, Cain v New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCA 28 at  [28] ff per Basten JA. 
Error of Law and Adequacy of Reasons. A court or tribunal is not obliged to respond to every submission or argument put before it, even if it has been developed in detail. The duty is a duty to give 'adequate' reasons, and what is adequate will vary. As Basten JA noted in Resource Pacific Pty Ltd v Wilkinson [2013] NSWCA 33 at  [48]:
Conduct of Agency. We will refer first to this aspect of Mr Warren's appeal. Mr Warren's assertions involve allegations of the most serious kind. The provisions referred to (ss 118, 120) are criminal offence provisions with maximum fines of 100 penalty units. 
We accept, as Mr Warren submits, that there is no discussion by the Tribunal of his broader criticisms of the way the agency dealt with him, in particular the failure of the officers who actioned his application for access to the Report to identify the supplementary document, the Memorandum, and to treat it as governed by his access request. He concluded from the Director General's letter, not unreasonably, that the Report must have been the source of the disciplinary allegations, though that was not squarely said in the letter. He raised, reasonably, the question of what material was the source of the allegations when he found that the Report did not contain the allegations. 
Nonetheless, in our view, it is plain from a fair reading of the Tribunal's decision, and its references to the affidavit material filed by the agency, that it did not reach any threshold level of concern sufficient to have it form a preliminary view that this was a case where it was necessary to examine the possibility of misconduct of the kind to which item (e) refers. 
While a case might arise where the Tribunal forms the view that serious misconduct in the handling of an access application may have occurred, it would be incumbent on the Tribunal to ensure that fairness was accorded to any person against whom such a finding might be made. There would need to be a proper show cause procedure, and the officer(s) affected would have to be given an opportunity to respond. The Tribunal would end up conducting an inquiry within an inquiry. 
Such a course could only, we think, be embarked upon in a case where there is compelling evidence warranting such a step and when the Tribunal is satisfied that there are no other suitable means of addressing the concerns. Allegations of administrative misconduct of the kind that Mr Warren raises would normally be better dealt with other mechanisms such as complaint to the Ombudsman.
Adequacy of Tribunal's Reasons in relation to Disclosure of the Report. At para [60] of its reasons the Tribunal commenced its consideration of the balancing exercise as it related to the Report. It set out briefly the public interests in favour of disclosure. It referred to the Note and considered relevant item (c) (effective oversight of the expenditure of public funds). It did not list item (e) (possible misconduct or negligent, improper or unlawful conduct). In our view, it can reasonably be inferred from the earlier part of its reasons where it refers to the affidavit evidence that it was not of the view that any threshold had been reached sufficient to justify referring to item (e) as an active consideration at this stage of the reasoning process.
It then went on to refer to the considerations against disclosure. It is correct that the Tribunal did not refer to Mr Warren's objections to the agency's reliance on these considerations. However, in our view its essential reasons are clear, and the standard set in the leading authorities to which we have referred is met. 
Further the Tribunal rejected the blanket reliance placed on these considerations by the agency. As we understand the dispute, it gave Mr Warren to a large measure the level of access he sought in relation to the Report, with the qualification that it protected from disclosure the personal information of other people mentioned in the Report. Mr Warren has, appropriately, throughout the history of the dispute accepted that it is reasonable to protect the identity of third persons mentioned in the Report. 
As we understand it, he wishes to see what people said. That can be a difficult issue in respect of a report that relates to a relatively small group of people who are colleagues of the access applicant. Their identity may be easily recognised from the information released. It is not obvious how any finding that might have related to misconduct could make a difference to the debate in this part of the case. The third persons would still have a privacy interest to protect, and there is no suggestion in Mr Warren's submissions that these parties were caught up in any misconduct. His objections are directed to the CEO of the agency (Ms Dodds) and other senior officers.
Adequacy of Tribunal's Reasons in relation to Disclosure of the Memorandum. Starting at para [84] the Tribunal considered the dispute over access to the Memorandum. As compared to its consideration of the Report, the Tribunal adopted a more limited approach to identifying the public interests in favour of disclosure. It confined them to the public interest in the appellant seeing his personal information. The Tribunal then turned to the agency's case, and rejected it insofar as it relied on cl 3(e) of the s 14 table (disclosure would '(e) reveal false or unsubstantiated allegations about a person that are defamatory'). Nor did it accept on the evidence that disclosure to the applicant would '(f) expose a person to a risk of harm or of serious harassment or serious intimidation'. The Tribunal went on to give weight to the other public interest considerations against disclosure relied upon by the agency, in particular the potential impact on its future ability to receive information confidentially as part of a review process. The Tribunal found that the agency need only disclose those parts of the Memorandum that contained personal information about the applicant. 
It is correct that it did not in dealing with access to the Memorandum refer to the considerations relating to alleged misconduct upon which Mr Warren had relied. In our view it was not obliged to do so, it was already apparent from its consideration of the Report that it did not accord any weight to these concerns.
Conclusion. In our view no error of law in the Tribunal's approach to the task required of it: (1) to identify relevant considerations from the many considerations to which it might have regard in favour of disclosure (the list is not prescribed) and similarly to identify relevant considerations against disclosure (the list is prescribed); (2) to evaluate them; (3) to weigh the competing evaluations, mindful of s 12(1) ('There is a general public interest in favour of the disclosure of government information). Nor was there a failure to give adequate reasons.
The grounds of law appeal is dismissed.
In these circumstances care must be exercised in considering whether to accede to a leave application requesting an extension to the merits. 
The application for extension to the merits refers in the first two grounds to the same matters raised by the grounds of law appeal. The third ground for extension of the case to the merits refers to s 112 of the GIPA Act, which provides:
Mr Warren submits that an extension to the merits would allow such an inquiry to be undertaken and for the CEO to be the subject of a referral under s 112. Finally in ground 4 he refers to an error in the Tribunal's reasons at [97], where the member said the 'suspension letter does not state who made the allegations'. Correctly, Mr Warren notes that the suspension letter did name 3 staff members as having made allegations.
In our view ground 3 is an extension of the allegations of misconduct that appear in grounds 1 and 2, are also in grounds 1 and 2 of the grounds of law appeal. For the reasons given early embarking an inquiry of the kind that s 112 contemplates would be a grave step reserved for very rare cases. This is not such a case . 
Caution needs to be exercised in extending an appeal to the merits where no mistake of law has been identified. It may be that in justice there should sometimes be an extension to the merits, especially where new evidence becomes available after the first instance decision has been given or there has been a material change in circumstances which means that the decision made at first instance may no longer be able to be safely regarded as the 'correct' or 'preferable' decision (see Administrative Decisions Review Act 1997, s 63). 
In our view this is not such a case. The appellant has a significant degree of success, as compared to the agency decision. The appeal has delayed the agency's reconsideration of its decision in light of the Tribunal's findings. In our view, it is better at this stage that the decision not be reopened, and the agency called on to reveal so much of the contents of the Report and the Memorandum as determined by the Tribunal.
############# I'm default separator ##########22
PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE - appeal more than 12 months out of time - previousappeal withdrawn and dismissed - reason for delay - prejudiceto respondent -merits of the appeal
The Appellant, AJO, has appealed against a decision of the Tribunal cancelling his school bus driver authority. He originally appealed within the 28 day time limit but that appeal was withdrawn and dismissed on the first day of hearing. The current appeal was lodged more than 12 months later. I have decided not to accept this appeal out of time because AJO has already withdrawn one appeal and has taken over 12 months to lodge a second appeal. In addition the appeal, if accepted, has very little prospects of success. 
On 1 January 2014, the Administrative Decisions Tribunal was abolished and the jurisdiction to determine internal appeals was assigned to the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), Sch 3, cl 3(1). In accordance with cl 6 of Sch 1 of the NCAT Act, this application to extend time is a "part heard" proceeding. Such proceedings are to be determined in accordance with the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997
The Tribunal's power to extend time is in s 113(3) of the ADT Act: 
The general rule is that proceedings commenced outside the prescribed period will not be entertained: Lucic v Nolan (1982) 45 ALR 411 at 416. But there is no onus on an applicant to provide an acceptable explanation for the delay or to establish by any particular evidence that time should be extended: Comcare v A'Hearn [1993] FCA 498;  (1993) 45 FCR 441; Dix v Client Compensation Tribunal [1993] VicRp 21;  (1993) 1 VR 297 at 302). It is relevant to consider whether the respondent was entitled to regard the matter as being finalised: Doyle v Chief of Staff [1982] FCA 124;  (1982) 42 ALR 283 at 287. Any prejudice to the respondent, including any prejudice in defending the proceeding occasioned by the delay, is also relevant.
In summary, relevant considerations include: the history of the proceedings, the reasons for the delay, the consequences to the parties of granting or refusing the extension of time and the prospects of success of the appeal: Currabubula & Paola v State Bank NSW  [2000] NSWSC 232 at  [87]. The aim is to do justice between the parties.
On 25 May 2012, following a four day hearing where AJO was represented by a solicitor and a barrister, the Tribunal handed down its reasons for affirming the decisions of Roads and Maritime Services to suspend and then cancel AJO's bus driver authority. 
AJO appealed within time and the appeal was listed for hearing on 4 October 2012. AJO was represented on that occasion by Mr Smark, SC who conceded that the appeal, as then drafted, lacked merit and applied to vacate the hearing date. In oral reasons delivered on the day, the Appeal Panel refused the application for an adjournment. Mr Smark SC then applied for the appeal to be withdrawn. The appeal was withdrawn and dismissed under s 73(5)(g)(i) of the ADT Act. 
The withdrawal and dismissal of the first appeal is not a bar to AJO filing another Notice of Appeal but it is a relevant factor when considering whether to extend the time to do so. AJO filed a further Notice of Appeal on 31 October 2013, over 12 months after the appeal had been dismissed and 17 months after the Tribunal had handed down its decision. The matter was listed on 16 December 2013 to determine whether the second appeal should be accepted out of time. 
On the day of that hearing AJO sought to tender an affidavit that had not previously been filed. He said it was unfinished. I gave him a short time to finish the affidavit and file it but Mr Viney, representing the respondent, said he could not proceed because he needed to get instructions in relation to allegations AJO had made against the lawyers who had withdrawn his first appeal. The matter was relisted for hearing on 20 January 2014.
In his affidavit dated 20 December 2013, and filed on 14 January 2014, AJO set out the history of the legal advice he had sought and received after the appeal was withdrawn in October 2012. AJO outlined what he did to obtain advice about appealing either to the Supreme Court or against the Appeal Panel's decision to refuse the application for an adjournment. He requested written reasons for the Appeal Panel's decision which he obtained in January 2013. He sought advice from counsel on 29 January 2013 and was referred to other lawyers. AJO did not lodge a fresh appeal at that stage but chose to apply for a new bus driver authority. That application was refused in July 2013. 
AJO says that after meeting with another barrister on 31 July 2013 he "reluctantly" decided to appeal to the Appeal Panel again, without the benefit of legal representation. He also says his marriage broke down around that time. He lodged the appeal on 31 October 2013.
While I am satisfied that AJO was actively seeking legal advice about his options until the end of January 2013, and that he was under considerable stress because of his family situation, he knew that time was of the essence. After receiving some advice, he chose to apply for a new authority. It was not until three months after that application had been refused that he lodged a second appeal. 
The consequences to AJO of refusing to extend time are that he would lose his final opportunity to submit that the Tribunal at first instance made an error of law in finding that he is not a fit and proper person to hold a bus driver authority. He would also lose his final opportunity to submit that the Appeal Panel should give him leave to extend the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. He strongly believes that the Tribunal was mistaken in its conclusion that he is not a fit and proper person to drive a school bus and he wants to appeal to 'clear his name'. He contends that some students who gave evidence against him lied as part of a narcissistic vendetta against him. He maintains that he is "an innocent, good, honest and decent man (who has) had his whole life destroyed including losing everything he and his partner had worked their whole life for, their business, marriage and family unit."
From the respondent's point of view, the consequence if the time is extended is that it will have to bear the expense of defending an appeal which it assumed had been finalised in October 2012. 
The final consideration is the merits of the appeal. If the grounds of appeal are weak, that is a consideration which would tend to suggest that leave should not be granted. It is not the Appeal Panel's role to finally determine the merits at this stage. 
AJO has the right to appeal on "questions of law". He also asks for permission (or 'leave') to appeal against the merits of the Tribunal's decision: Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW) (ADT Act), s 113(2). AJO filed an Amended Notice of Appeal on 2 December 2013, setting out 20 grounds of appeal on questions of law. AJO also set out detailed reasons for seeking leave to appeal against the merits of the Tribunal's decision. AJO filed further lengthy material on 5 February, 3 April and 10 April 2014. No directions were made for the filing of that material and it has not been taken into account except as possible further or fresh evidence. 
The application for extension of time was heard on 16 December 2013. Having read the relevant material, I have formed the view that the appeal has very little prospects of success. AJO has either misunderstood the law or the way the law applies to his case. Without finally determining any of AJO's grounds of appeal, the merits of the main grounds are discussed below.
AJO submitted that the Tribunal misapplied cl 101 of the Passenger Transport Regulation 2007
According to AJO, the situation about which evidence was given in his case falls within cl 101(b) because he put the student off the bus at a school (not the student's school but a different school) and not with the intent of leaving him there. 
The Tribunal cited cl 101(b) and concluded at [55] that requiring a particular student to leave the bus was a breach of that clause and the Behaviour Guidelines. AJO disagrees with the Tribunal's finding that the factual circumstances come within that provision. It is unlikely that if an Appeal Panel were to hear this appeal it would conclude that the Tribunal 'misapplied' this provision. 
When reviewing a decision of an administrator, the Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence and may inquire into and inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks fit, subject to the rules of procedural fairness: ADT Act, s 73(2). 
AJO said that the Tribunal had made adverse findings about his conduct in relation to events on which the Respondent had not relied when coming to its decision. He says that he did not know what allegations the Tribunal would rely on in coming to a conclusion that he was not a fit and proper person. For example, the allegation that he abandoned a child who was on the bus or that he threw a bag of rubbish out of the bus, were not raised in the documents the Respondent filed pursuant to s 58 of the ADT Act. 
Contrary to AJO's submission, it is not a breach of the rules of procedural fairness for the Tribunal to rely on evidence which the Respondent did not rely on when making its decision. In making findings of fact, the Tribunal is to have regard to the material 'then before it" including any relevant factual material: ADT Act, s 63. The Tribunal is required to "take such measures as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the parties to the proceedings before it understand the nature of the assertions made in the proceedings and the legal implications of those assertions": ADT Act, s 73(4(a). 
The circumstances surrounding AJO's decision to put a student off the bus was the subject of lengthy cross-examination of some of the students by AJO's lawyer. AJO was on notice of the allegation and had a reasonable opportunity to respond to it: ADT Act, s 73(4)(c).
According to AJO the allegation that he threw a bag of rubbish out the door of the bus was not mentioned in the s 58 documents and he was not asked in cross-examination whether the bag contained rubbish. 
At [61], the Tribunal made the following finding:
The Tribunal's finding is that AJO conceded that he had thrown a bag of rubbish from the bus. If AJO did not give evidence disputing that allegation, it was open to the Tribunal to make that finding. 
A further ground of appeal relating to procedural fairness was that AJO asserts that 500 documents were "dumped on him" three days before the hearing. In circumstances where AJO was represented by lawyers who could have applied for an adjournment, the service of documents close to the hearing date is unlikely to constitute a breach of procedural fairness. 
Another matter that AJO says was not raised in the Respondent's statement of reasons was his conduct as an accredited bus operator. At [99] of the reasons, the Tribunal states that:
This evidence is a letter written by AJO. It was part of the material before the Tribunal and the Tribunal was entitled to take it into account if it was relevant. The fact that it was relevant to his conduct as an accredited operator does not necessarily mean that it was not relevant to the question of whether he was a fit and proper person to be the driver of a school bus. 
Finally, AJO says Tribunal was biased but points to no basis for that contention other than the fact that the case was determined against him.
A further ground of appeal was that the Tribunal did not take into account all relevant considerations. The Tribunal will only make an error of law by failing to take into account a relevant consideration if that consideration is a consideration that the Tribunal is bound to take into account: Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko Wallsend Ltd [1986] HCA 40;  (1986) 162 CLR 24. Whether or not a decision maker is bound to take into account or to ignore any particular matter is to be determined from the "subject-matter, scope and purpose" of the legislative scheme: Peko Wallsend, per Mason J at 39-40.
At [29] the Tribunal cited the decision in Saadieh v Director General, Department of Transport  [1999] NSWADT 68:
The nature, seriousness and frequency of any complaints made against AJO was the main basis for the Tribunal's decision. AJO submitted that the Tribunal did not take into account his good record in reaching its decision. If AJO had a good record, and there was evidence of that record before the Tribunal, that does not necessarily overcome or discount the complaints about him and the findings in relation to those complaints. 
At [29] the Tribunal said:
AJO objects to the reference to 'country school bus driver' saying there is no difference between city or country bus drivers and that the fact that he is a country bus driver is an irrelevant consideration. Even if the Appeal Panel accepted that the expectations of country bus drivers are no different from those of city bus drivers it is highly unlikely that it would find that the Tribunal had made an error of law by including that reference. The point is a relatively insignificant one. 
A consideration which AJO said that the Tribunal did not take into account was "the catastrophic loss which he and his former wife faced following cancellation of his licence." The Tribunal found that the effect on AJO and his family of the cancellation of his bus authority was not relevant when determining whether he is a fit and proper person to hold such an authority: Lal v Director General, Department of Transport [2001] NSWADT 74 at  [47]. AJO disputes that conclusion but does not provide any authority for his contention. Without any such authority, this ground of appeal is likely to fail. 
AJO disagrees with many of the Tribunal's findings of fact. He characterises those disagreements as errors of law or as a basis for the Appeal Panel giving leave to appeal against the merits of the decision. AJO provides considerable detail in his Amended Notice of Appeal as to the errors he says the Tribunal made in relation to factual findings. The main focus of AJO's criticism was that the Tribunal accepted as reliable evidence given by a small group of people (who he refers to as a 'subset') who had been the subject of ongoing disciplinary action and who were at risk of being banned permanently from the bus service. According to AJO, their evidence was not reliable because it was part of a narcissistic vendetta against him, and the Tribunal should not have accepted it. He also says that on the basis of all the evidence, the Tribunal should have found that he is a 'fit and proper' person to hold a driver authority.
As a general rule, the Tribunal's fact finding cannot be challenged on a question of law appeal if there is some evidence to support that finding. Although not bound by the rules of evidence, the Tribunal must base its decision on 'probative evidence': Re Pochi and Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs [1979] AATA 64;  (1979) 36 FLR 482 at 491-493. It is only where there is no probative on which a 'primary finding of fact' could be based, that there is an error of law: Azzopardi v Tasman UEB Industries Ltd (1985) 4 NSWLR 139 at 155-156. Essentially AJO is attacking the Tribunal's findings as to credibility. It is unlikely that he would be able to persuade an Appeal Panel hearing the appeal to extend the appeal to the merits on that ground. 
Section 73(2) of the ADT Act states that: 
AJO asserted that this provision means that the Tribunal has a duty to obtain evidence from students outside what he refers to as the 'subset' of children who were at risk of being disciplined. 
The Tribunal must take into account all relevant evidence but has no duty to obtain evidence that neither party has adduced. Under s 73(5)((b) of the ADT Act, the Tribunal "is to ensure that all relevant material is disclosed to the Tribunal so as to enable it to determine all of the relevant facts in issue in any proceedings." But an Appeal Panel is unlikely to find that the Tribunal has made an error of law by relying on the documents produced by the administrator and the documents filed by the appellant. While the Tribunal can request a party to produce particular evidence, it is generally a matter for the parties to adduce the evidence on which they intend to rely. 
AJO questions the Tribunal's factual finding at [96]:
AJO says that there were records of misbehaviour or warnings given to students in the s 58 documents filed by the Respondent and that the Tribunal overlooked that material. Another finding the Tribunal made was that AJO was talking on his mobile phone but no-one asked him whether he was parked at the time. 
It is an error of law to ignore evidence critical to a disputed issue and contrary to an assertion of fact made by one party: Mifsud v Campbell [1991] 21 NSWLR 725. There is no need to refer to all the evidence in detail before making a finding of fact. In Beale v GIO (1997) 48 NSWLR 430 at 443 Meagher JA set out the relevant principle:
Again, this is a ground which the Appeal Panel is unlikely to uphold.
AJO says that he has significant new evidence which he wishes to adduce on appeal including the evidence in an affidavit of 14 January 2014. In that affidavit AJO sets out his background, his family and working history and the history of the proceedings. He also wishes to give new evidence or clarify his evidence about each and every incident relating to the cancellation of his authority. That evidence, so far as it relates to the substantive appeal, cannot be admitted until a decision is made as to whether the appeal should be accepted out of time and leave is given for the appeal to extend to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. 
The principles on which the Appeal Panel would accept fresh or further evidence were set out in Building Professionals Board v Hans (GD)  [2008] NSWADTAP 13 (12 March 2008) at [52] to [57]. The second of those principles is that the Appeal Panel would have to be satisfied that the further evidence, if tendered at the hearing conducted by the Tribunal, was 'likely to have produced a different result'. 
There is no suggestion that any of the evidence AJO wishes to adduce was not available to him at the time of the hearing. He had lawyers representing him at that stage. 
Furthermore, parties are bound by the manner in which the proceedings were conducted at first instance: Rowe v Australian Steam Navigation Co Ltd [1909] HCA 25;  (1909) 9 CLR 1 per Isaacs J at 24. 
In those circumstances it is highly unlikely that an Appeal Panel would allow a new hearing with further evidence.
I have decided not to accept this appeal out of time. AJO originally appealed within the 28 day time limit but that appeal was withdrawn and dismissed on the first day of hearing. The current appeal was lodged more than 12 months later. While AJO provided evidence explaining the delay, his explanation does not adequately account for the entire period. I appreciate that the consequences to AJO of refusing to allow him to bring a second appeal are significant. But I must also take into account the fact that the respondent would have to bear the expense of defending an appeal which it assumed had been finalised in October 2012. Finally I have taken into account the prospects of success of the appeal which I regard as poor. 
############# I'm default separator ##########23
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - leave toappeal - error of principle - substantial injustice - Hardimanprinciple -whether applicable generally in merits review proceedings - whetherdecision-maker should be active party to proceedings- no error in refusingjoinder application - appeal dismissed
On 10 January 2014, Mr Fine filed an application with this Tribunal seeking review of the decision of the Independent Liquor and Gaming Authority (ILGA) to impose a long-term banning order against Mr Fine made on 7 January 2014. That order was made under s 116AE(1) of the Liquor Act 2007
Mr Fine is employed as an operations manager at a Kings Cross venue known as "Showgirls", which is defined as a "high risk venue" within the meaning of s 116AA(2).
In accordance with s 116AF of the Liquor Act, read together with cll 2 and 17 of the transitional provisions in schedule 1 to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW)(the Act), a person who is subject to a long-term banning order made under s 116AE may seek review of that decision in this Tribunal. These are the first proceedings for review under s 116AF. That section, together with s 116AE, was inserted into the Liquor Act by the Liquor Amendment (Kings Cross Plan of Management) Act 2013. Both sections commenced operation on 6 December 2013.
After the proceedings were commenced, the ILGA sought to file a submitting appearance. On 16 January 2014, the proceedings were listed for a directions hearing and to deal with Mr Fine's application to stay the banning order. At the outset of that directions hearing, the Commissioner sought to be joined as a respondent to the proceedings, under s 44(1) of the NCAT Act. The Commissioner of Police, one of the appellants in the present appeal, submitted in support of that application that, inter alia, it was not appropriate for the ILGA to be an active participant, in light of the principle in R v Australian Broadcasting Tribunal; ex parte Hardiman [1980] HCA 13;  (1980) 144 CLR 13 at 35-36. Mr Fine opposed the application.
Hennessy LCM, Deputy President, rejected the application for joinder on that occasion but granted the stay application on certain conditions, and also made orders for the filing of submissions and evidence, and set the matter down for hearing on 24 March 2014. In rejecting the application on that occasion the Deputy President did not preclude the Commissioner from bringing another application supported by appropriate evidence at a later time. 
The Commissioner subsequently filed a notice of appeal, which included an application for an extension of time in which to lodge the notice and an application for leave to appeal, on 6 March 2014. (For an explanation of the Tribunal's use of a multipurpose form see Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22 at [8]). The applications were listed for a directions hearing on 17 March 2014 before the President. At that hearing his Honour vacated the hearing on 24 March 2014, and set aside Hennessy LCM's directions for the filing of evidence and submissions. His Honour also ordered that the applications for an extension of time and leave to appeal, together with the appeal (assuming leave were granted) be determined on the papers (without an oral hearing), unless the Appeal Panel determined that oral submissions were required.
The Commissioner thus seeks: (1) an order under s 41 of the Act extending the time in which to file his application to 6 March 2014, the date of filing, as the Notice of Appeal was filed three weeks after the expiration of the 28 day period prescribed under rule 25(4) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (the Rules);
The Deputy President's interlocutory decision was made on 16 January 2014. The Commissioner's legal representative sought advice from the Crown Solicitor on 3 February, that advice being received on 12 February 2014. The appeal was initiated on 6 March 2014, three weeks after the final date for lodging an appeal. The Commissioner therefore properly included in his notice of appeal an application for an extension of time under s 41 of the Act. 
Mr Fine argued that the delay was wholly unexplained and that the failure to provide a sufficient or adequate explanation for a delay of that magnitude must be fatal to the Commissioner's application for leave to appeal. He also submitted that it was no answer to this dilatory behaviour to say that Mr Fine would suffer no prejudice by the grant of an extension, nor could it be said that there would be substantial injustice if the Commissioner's application could not proceed. 
In Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22 the Appeal Panel identified the considerations that would generally be relevant in considering an application for an extension of time to lodge a notice of appeal and noted that, despite their importance for the orderly and timely conduct of proceedings in the Tribunal, time limits should not be allowed to become an instrument of injustice, as McHugh J emphasised in Gallo v Dawson [1990] HCA 30;  93 ALR 479 at  [2]. The Appeal Panel held at [22] in Jackson that relevant considerations include: (1) The length of the delay;
It should also be borne in mind that while the discretion to extend time is unfettered, it must be exercised in the context of the statute or rule that creates the discretion: Arthur Andersen Corporate Finance Pty Ltd v Buzzle Operations Pty Ltd (in liq) [2009] NSWCA 104 at  [30]. The Tribunal should look at all relevant circumstances. 
In this case the delay was three weeks. Part of it occurred in the second half of January and the beginning of February when some legal and business activities are affected by the summer holidays. The delay appears to have been brought about, at least in part, by the following of internal government procedures that are presumably designed to ensure the prudent management of taxpayer funds and the need to obtain appropriate instructions. 
The delay in seeking leave to appeal and appealing might have caused some period of uncertainty for Mr Fine, but he did not claim that it would cause him hardship or work an injustice. 
Finally, the Commissioner's prospects on appeal are not insubstantial and the scope and application of the Hardiman principle in merits review proceedings are matters of some importance in the Tribunal (both in these proceedings and in proceedings before the Administrative and Equal Opportunity Division generally). 
In our view whilst most of the considerations do not weigh strongly in favour of or against extending the time, the significance of the scope and application of the Hardiman principle for this and other proceedings, tips the balance in favour of extending time. 
We therefore consider it appropriate to grant the requested extension of time so that the application for leave to appeal and, if leave is granted, the appeal itself can be heard and determined. 
The first respondent, Mr Fine, pointed out that the need for leave to appeal against interlocutory rulings serves a public policy purpose, namely to prevent the fragmentation of trials by an appeals against interlocutory rulings: In the Will of Gilbert [1946] NSWStRp 24;  (1946) 46 SR (NSW) 318 at 323. While acknowledging that there are no rigid rules or exhaustive criteria governing the grant of leave to appeal, he submitted that leave should not be granted unless the judgment appealed from involves both an error of principle and substantial injustice would result if leave were not granted: Minogue v Williams [2000] FCA 125 at  [19]. No substantial injustice would be caused if the Commissioner were not joined, as the ILGA would remain a party, acting as contradictor to Mr Fine's case. Nor was there any error of principle involved in Hennessy's LCM decision.
The Appeal Panel has recently considered the principles which generally guide the consideration of whether leave to appeal should be granted under s 80(2) of the Act: see Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17. At [84] the Panel summarised the principles as follows:
It is settled law that leave to appeal against an interlocutory decision is reserved for cases with special features warranting appellate review. The fact that the statute imposes a leave requirement makes it clear that such appeals are not to be brought as a matter of routine: Niemann v Electronic Industries Ltd [1978] VicRp 44;  [1978] VR 431 at 436. The High Court in Adam P Brown Male Fashions Pty Ltd v Philip Morris Inc [1981] HCA 39;  (1981) 148 CLR 170 at 177 acknowledged, referring to the often cited passage of Sir Frederick Jordan in In re the Will of Gilbert, that "a tight rein" had to be kept on interlocutory appeals if all exercises of discretion in interlocutory applications were not to be transferred to a court of appeal. Nonetheless, the High Court also held that it was unnecessary and indeed unwise to lay down rigid and exhaustive criteria, and specifically stated that the requirement for an error of principle and a risk of substantial injustice were not cumulative. Of the same mind in this latter regard was the Victorian Full Court in Niemann, where their Honours pointed out that if the appellate court were expected to say in all cases that the decision below was clearly wrong and that substantial injustice would follow if it went undisturbed, "leave would never be granted by the primary judge" ([1978] VR at 441). The Full Court considered that the use of the word "wrong" in this context was itself misguided and that the requirement would be better expressed as "attended with sufficient doubt". 
The substantive point in the present appeal is the scope and application of the Hardiman principle in merit review proceedings in the context of an application for the joinder of a party. That point has been the subject of contention for many years and no consensus has yet emerged, especially in relation to whether the principle applies to merits review. The question that would arise on an appeal if leave were granted is thus properly characterised as more than "arguably wrong" and can legitimately be said to be "attended with sufficient doubt" as the Court put it in Niemann.
In the present case it could not be said that the decision below would result in a substantial injustice if not corrected. On the other hand, at issue is relatively new legislation. This is the first case under the Liquor Act, s 116AF, a provision that is likely to give rise to multiple applications. Consequently, the appeal can legitimately been seen as raising questions or matters of administration or procedure which are likely to have general application in proceedings of this type. 
We therefore conclude that it is appropriate to grant leave to appeal in the present case and make an order granting leave accordingly. 
Turning now to the appeal, the Appeal Panel notes that the rejection of the Commissioner's joinder application by the Deputy President was not accompanied by detailed reasons at that time nor were reasons sought by the Commissioner under s 62 of the Act. As stated above, the Deputy President's rejection of the joinder on that occasion did not preclude the Commissioner from making a further application for joinder supported by evidence at a later time. Nonetheless, the Commissioner chose to press his various applications raised in his Notice of Appeal. In these circumstances and in order not to delay proceedings further, the Appeal Panel decided to hear all the applications and, to the extent necessary, to deal with the appeal, leave having been granted, by way of a new hearing under s 80(3)(a) of the Act in order to avoid any technical or formal difficulties. 
In this appeal, the substantive and interrelated issues that arise are:  (1) whether the Commissioner of Police should be joined as a respondent to the review proceedings; and 
Section 44(1) of the Act gives the Tribunal power to order that a person be joined as a party to proceedings "if the Tribunal considers that the person should be joined as a party". 
Mr El Hage of counsel appeared for the Commissioner and, in his detailed submissions, argued that the Commissioner should be joined as a party to the review proceedings because his interests were affected by those proceedings. It was he who lodged the application for the long-term banning order under s 116AE(2). Indeed, that section stipulates that the Commissioner is the only party who can lodge such an application. The outcome of the proceedings will therefore directly affect the Commissioner as the party who sought the banning order, and the affectation of a person's interest is the "touchstone of participation" in proceedings: Bignell v New South Wales Casino Control Authority [2001] NSWADTAP 41 at  [14].
It was submitted that in addition to having a direct interest in the proceedings, the Commissioner is in the best position to assist the Tribunal, test Mr Fine's case and present a contradictory case. It is the Commissioner who gathers the relevant material records in support of the application for a long-term banning order and makes an application to the ILGA. Further, if an issue were raised in the proceedings concerning the materials or records submitted, or more general questions arose concerning Mr Fine's criminal record or conduct and associations, it would be the Commissioner, rather than the ILGA, who would be able to deal with such issues properly. The Commissioner should therefore be joined as a party to the proceedings, and indeed to any review of an order under s 116AE.
The Commissioner also noted that in Hardiman, the High Court disapproved of the active role played by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal (ABT) in a judicial review of one of its decisions. The ABT had sought to contest the challenge to its decision and made substantive submissions about the arguments presented. The Court considered that if the tribunal became a protagonist in the Court, there would be a risk of its endangering the impartiality which it is expected to maintain in subsequent proceedings, especially if the matter were remitted to the ABT for reconsideration. The Court reiterated that principle in Oshlack v Richmond River Council [1993] HCA 11;  (1998) 193 CLR 72 at  [12]. Later cases had applied it, while acknowledging that it is neither immutable nor inflexible.
From the applicable legislation here, the Commissioner argued, the ILGA is an authority or tribunal which falls within the purview of the Hardiman principle. It is constituted as a statutory corporation and, subject to certain exceptions, it is not subject to ministerial control or direction. In the regime under s 116AE, proceedings before the ILGA are in effect inter partes proceedings. Its role is purely adjudicatory and it must afford procedural fairness to the party affected. It is therefore necessary that the ILGA maintain strict impartiality and avoid any perception of bias: see Capricornia Credit Union Ltd v Australian Securities and Investments Commission [2007] FCAFC 112. Joining the Commissioner to the review proceedings here would remove the need for the ILGA to participate actively in the proceedings.
The decision below erred, the Commissioner contended, in holding that the principle does not apply to merits review. The full Federal Court in Capricornia accepted that the principle applied to merits review before the federal Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT), as have other cases. The Administrative Decisions Tribunal took a similar view in Nature Conservation Council of New South Wales v Department of Trade and Investment [2012] NSWADT 195. The Victorian Court of Appeal had adopted a different position in Macedon Ranges Shire Council v Romsey Hotel Pty Ltd [2008] VSCA 45;  (2008) 19 VR 422. Under the relevant legislative scheme there, the gambling commission had wide powers and functions and was endowed with special expertise in the field, enabling it to make a unique contribution in merits review proceedings. Further, the Court considered that the tribunal's power to remit matters to the commission was not directly relevant because the power was rarely exercised. On the other hand, it was submitted that the ILGA's role under s 116AE is entirely adjudicatory. In any event, the proposition that Hardiman does not apply to merits review proceedings is at odds with the cases outlined earlier. Nothing in the High Court's reasoning supports the view that the principle applies only to judicial review proceedings, the Commissioner submitted.
The respondent accepted the Commissioner's submission that the joinder question was linked to the question of whether or not the ILGA should be an active participant in the proceedings. 
The respondent contended that "it is entirely orthodox that the Authority should appear as a party" notwithstanding the ruling in Hardiman citing Davies J in Re New Broadcasting Limited and Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and Brian Sydney Treasure  [1987] AATA 151;  73 ALR 420 in support of the interpretation of Regulation 27 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulations 2013 (NSW) (the Regulations) as requiring the ILGA to be joined as a party. Further, Mr Fine submited that there are reasonable grounds for "why a first instance administrative decision-maker should appear and actively contest its decision upon a merits review" and refers to Class 1 proceedings in the Land and Environment Court of NSW, where local councils commonly appear and contest appeals which are in the nature of merits review against decisions to refuse development approval, as an example in support of this submission. 
The respondent also sought to distinguish the authorities of Hardiman and Oshlack, as relied upon by the Commissioner, on the basis that both decisions involved applications for judicial review as opposed to merits review, as is the situation before the Appeal Panel in this matter. He submited that: 
The Commissioner effectively put his application to be joined on two bases. First, he should be joined on general principles apart from the Hardiman principle. Secondly, he relied upon that principle as justifying or requiring his joinder in the present proceedings. The Appeal Panel will deal with each basis separately. 
Unlike the joinder provisions in some comparable legislation, such as s 30(1A) of the federal Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth), s 44(1) of the Act contains no requirement that applicants for joinder should show that their "interests are affected," but empowers the tribunal to order a person to be joined as a party "if the tribunal considers that the person should be joined as a party". Nor does it require common questions of law and fact. It is similar to r 6.19 of the Uniform Civil Procedure Rules in granting a wide discretion, although it is even more broadly expressed than that rule. 
That broad discretion is said, by the learned editor of Ritchie's Uniform Civil Procedure NSW, to have emerged from the long and technically complex history of litigation relating to joinder which reveals a practical concern about the efficient determination of essentially similar issues and the difficulty in formulating precise and acceptable criteria to distinguish permissible and impermissible joinder. The basic principle is that a court (or tribunal) should take the course most conducive to the just resolution of the dispute, having regard to the desirability of minimizing the costs and delay of litigation - see Ritchie's Uniform Civil Procedure NSW at [6.19.35]. The criteria developed under more narrowly drawn legislation remain relevant as considerations constituting useful guides to the exercise of the discretion, however.
The Commissioner argued that his interests were affected by the proceedings, as he was the party who lodged the application for the long-term banning order and indeed is the only party authorized to do so. The Appeal Panel accepts that the "interests" in question need not be financial, proprietary or even legal or equitable in nature, or that the affectation be of a nature as understood in private law: Alphapharm v Smithkline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd  [1994] FCA 996;  121 ALR 373 at 382 (lines 30-46) per Davies J and at 395 (lines 35-44) per Gummow J. Davies J at 385 (lines 1-26) observed that the nature of the interests affected in any given case will be influenced by the subject matter and content of the relevant decision. In the context of administrative review, they may be a statutory authority's interest in the proper performance of its role: see for example Re Price and Official Trustee in Bankruptcy (1998) 49 ALD 785 at 788, although in that case joinder was refused for other reasons.
Although the Commissioner submitted that not only were his interests affected but also he was in the best position to assist the Tribunal, test Mr Fine's case and present a contradictory case, he did not adduce any evidence in support of these various contentions.
It is considered to be "a serious matter" to join a party in tribunal proceedings: Snowden Developments Pty Ltd v Actpen Pty Ltd  [2005] VCAT 2910 at  [17]. The joinder power is not to be exercised lightly: Lawley v Terrace Designs Pty Ltd [2004] VCAT 1825 at  [26]. 
The normal position in administrative review proceedings in the Tribunal, as contemplated by r 27(a) and (b) of the Rules is that the parties to such proceedings are the applicant and the person or body in respect of whom the order or other decision is sought. As Mr Hatzis, solicitor for Mr Fine, pointed out in his written submissions, that is also the orthodox position in other merits review jurisdictions, such as the Land and Environment Court, where councils commonly appear and contest appeals (which are in the nature of merits review) against their own decisions to refuse development approval.
Further, in ordinary inter partes litigation (albeit under more restrictive joinder rules), where the issues in dispute could be effectively and completely adjudicated upon in the absence of the party sought to be joined and where no order is sought against that party, joinder of that party is unnecessary and ought not generally to be allowed: Vandervell Trustees Limited v White [1971] AC 912 at 930 and 944 and Walker v Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia  (1985) 3 NSWLR 496. 
The ILGA has the responsibility for making orders under s 116AE and undoubtedly its interests, in the broader sense outlined above, are affected if a person challenges one of its decisions in the Tribunal. The Commissioner's role, however, may be seen as that of an investigative official with the power to institute proceedings seeking an order from the ILGA. His functions are not affected in the same direct way as those of the responsible authority. Nor is it evident how the Commissioner's role in the present proceedings cannot be properly performed without his becoming a party. That, indeed, is the position in relation to his role in relation to criminal prosecutions on indictment, in which the prosecuting authority seeks from him information, records and other material held by the Police Force. 
The Tribunal, whether sitting in a Division or as the Appeal Panel, is required to exercise its powers and interpret the Act and the Rules to give effect to the guiding principle so as to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings under s 36(2) of the Act. The AAT has said that it is unnecessary to produce evidence to support the proposition that joinder of a party would increase the cost of the proceedings: Re Sew Eurodrive Pty Ltd and Collector of Customs (1994) 35 ALD 790 at 791. Having two respondents in the present proceedings, the Commissioner as well as the ILGA, may well increase the costs of proceedings. 
For these reasons and having regard to guiding principle in s 36 of the Act, we are not persuaded that the Commissioner has established that his joinder is necessary or appropriate in order to do justice in the proceedings. The Tribunal below did not make any error in refusing the Commissioner's joinder application on the basis of general principles other than the Hardiman principle. 
The question whether the Hardiman principle applies so as to require joinder, however, must now be considered.
The Hardiman principle has been briefly stated as a rule which "prevents a tribunal from appearing as an active party in judicial review proceedings of one of its decisions. The rule is subject to so many exceptions and extensions that its precise scope is not entirely settled": Mark Aronson and Matthew Groves, Judicial Review of Administrative Action, (5th ed 2013, Lawbook Co) at 756.
The principle has been widely applied in the context of judicial review in cases such as Oshlack v Richmond River Council [1993] HCA 11;  (1998) 193 CLR 72, Fagan v Crimes Commission Tribunal [1982] HCA 49;  (1982) 150 CLR 666 and Murlan Consulting Pty Ltd v Kuringai Municipal Council [2009] NSWCA 300;  (2009) 170 LGERA 162. The Commissioner contended that it had been applied in relation to merits review proceedings in such cases as Capricornia Credit Union Ltd v Australian Securities and Investment Commission  [2007] FCAFC 112 and Nature Conservation Council of New South Wales v Department of Trade and Investment [2012] NSWADT 195, but the issue has not yet been squarely dealt with and made the subject of a direct holding. 
In TXU Electricity v Office of the Regulator-General, Ashley J extensively reviewed the authorities and considered the categories of cases in which the rule applied, but accepted that the principles he proposed did not properly state the nature and limits of the rule and conceded that it remained uncertain, though clearly subject to many recognized exceptions: at [18] - [21]. Apart from that, the courts have not sought to develop general or overarching principles to explain why the Hardiman principle might or might not apply (see M Groves, "The Hardiman Rule"  (2012) 33 Adelaide Law Review 370, 376). 
The remedial powers of many merits review tribunals commonly include the power of remittal. That raises the question whether the remittal power in merits review legitimately gives rise to concerns similar to those expressed in Hardiman so that decision-makers subject to merits review should refrain from active involvement in that review in order to preserve their perceived impartiality if the matter is remitted. 
In the absence of a clear and authoritative exposition by the Courts, the inquiry as to whether the principle applies to merits review must return to the underlying rationale of the principle as its point of departure. A leading case rejecting the application of the principle to merits review and clearly setting out the rationale for that position is Re New Broadcasting Ltd. In that case, in which a company appealed to the AAT against an ABT decision, the ABT appeared before the AAT to explain the reasons for the decision, but made no other submissions.
In expressing strong disapproval of that approach, Davies J declared that it was wrong to assume that the cautions sounded in Hardiman extended to merits review proceedings. One key ground was that the AAT rarely exercised its power to remit decisions to a decision-maker and instead normally assumed the powers of the primary decision-maker to make a new decision, "in the overwhelming proportion of cases": [1987] AATA 151;  (1987) 73 ALR 420 at 431. This is because the AAT, like this Tribunal, in merits review proceedings is required to make the "correct and preferable decision" and only remits matters to the original decision maker where this cannot be done (in relation to the AAT see Drake v Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  [1979] FCA 39;  24 ALR 577 at 589 cited with approval in Esber v the Commonwealth [1992] HCA 20;  (1992) 174 CLR 430 at 440; and Wilson v Minister for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Affairs [1996] HCA 18;  (1996) 189 CLR 1 at 18 citing with approval Brennan J in Re Becker and Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs [1977] AATA 12;  (1977) 1 ALD 158 at 161; and in relation to this Tribunal see the Act, s 30(1) and the Administrative Decisions Review Act 1997 (NSW) (ADR Act), s 63). 
The other main ground on which Davies J held that the rule did not apply in Re New Broadcasting Ltd was that merits review proceedings required respondent agencies to assume a fundamentally different role from that applying in judicial review. Merits review involved the making of a new decision, after consideration of the facts and evidence presented to the tribunal. Davies J (a judge of the Federal Court, and for eight years President of the AAT) considered that the AAT could best exercise the merits review function and reach the correct or preferable decision if it were assisted by the original decision-maker. His Honour noted, at 439 (line 47)-431 (line 2), that this assistance was consistent with the provisions by which decision-makers are normally made the respondent in merits review proceedings by virtue of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth), s 30(1) - as is the case in this Tribunal under rule 27 of the Rules. 
In the Appeal Panel's view, these considerations apply with equal force in relation to merits review proceedings in this Tribunal, including the present proceedings. 
Further support for the propositions articulated in New Broadcasting is provided by Macedon Ranges, in which the Victorian Court of Appeal acknowledged that a decision-maker normally had "a unique contribution to the review" of the merits of a decision: at [31]. Warren CJ, Maxwell P and Osborn AJA continued:
The observation that most decision-makers acquire considerable expertise in the area they administer and that expertise might often enable them to provide valuable insight into any review of their decisions is inherently credible and deserves considerable weight in this regard: see M Groves, 2012, "The Hardiman Rule"  (2012) 30(2) Adelaide Law Review 371, 379.
All three of those considerations referred to above apply in the present case. First, this Tribunal, like its predecessor the Administrative Decisions Tribunal, seldom exercises its power to remit a decision to a decision-maker and instead almost always make a new, correct and preferable decision. Secondly, as a merits review body, this Tribunal discharges its statutory functions by making the correct and preferable decision on the basis of all the evidence available to it at the time of its review: see ADR Act, s 63. In these circumstances, it is likely to benefit from assistance by the original decision-maker. Thirdly, the ILGA has been made the repository of extensive powers and responsibilities in the administration of the liquor and gambling laws of New South Wales. It has been given an independent status insulating it to a certain extent from ministerial direction or political influence. It is structurally likely to develop extensive expertise and insight into the proper regulation of those fields. No doubt it may draw significantly on the resources of the Commissioner in order to fulfil its role as contradictor of an applicant's case before the Tribunal. That fact, however, does not compromise the ILGA's position and impartiality, nor does it interfere with the Commissioner's ability to perform his role. 
The importance and significance of the distinction between judicial and merits review for these purposes was clearly expressed by the Victorian Full Court in Macedon Ranges Shire Council v Romsey Hotel Pty Ltd at [34]:
In Warkworth Mining Limited v Bulga Milbrodale Progress Association Inc [2014] NSWCA 105 at  [273] - [276], the New South Wales Court of Appeal referred to Macedon Shire, albeit in a somewhat different context, without disapproval. 
The conclusion that the Hardiman principle does not apply generally to merits review proceedings such as the present should not be seen as depriving the Tribunal of the flexibility to deal with special or unusual cases where the appropriateness of joinder of another party is established by the evidence and circumstances in those cases. As the Courts noted in TXU Electricity v Office of the Regulator-General and Fagan v Crimes Commission Tribunal [1982] HCA 49;  (1982) 150 CLR 666, Hardiman itself is not "immutable". Consistently with that approach, the exclusion of that rule from merits review proceedings should itself be regarded as non-absolute and flexible. In an appropriate case, the Hardiman principle should be applied to permit joinder of another party as the contradictor. 
We therefore conclude that the ILGA is not required to take a purely passive role in these proceedings before the Tribunal challenging one of its decisions. In the circumstances of the case, joinder of the Commissioner to act as a contradictor in the proceedings is not necessary. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied either on the basis of general principles of joinder or on the basis of the principle in Hardiman that the Deputy President erred in refusing the Commissioner's application for joinder and would reject that application. Accordingly, the appeal should be dismissed.
At the directions hearing on 17 March 2014, the issue of costs was raised and the Appeal Panel expressly noted that the Commissioner was prepared to submit to an order for costs in favour of Mr Fine for costs incurred in respect of the application for an extension of time, application for leave to appeal and the appeal, if leave were granted, in a sum not exceeding $3000. 
The Appeal Panel anticipates that the question of costs can be practically dealt with between the solicitors for the parties and it is not necessary for the Appeal Panel to make an order in relation to costs. If, contrary to our expectation, this is not the case, each party has liberty to apply to the Appeal Penal on the question of costs. 
The orders of the Appeal Panel are: (1) The time for filing of the Appellants' Notice of Appeal be extended to 6 March 2014.
############# I'm default separator ##########24
Appeal - application for leave to appeal from decision of the Tribunal'sConsumer and Commercial Division (decision at First instance)- whether thedecision at First Instance was not fair or equitable on the grounds that theappellant had not received notificationof the hearing - whether the documentrelied on by the appellant was evidence 'now available and not reasonablyavailable at thetime of the hearing of the application at First InstanceApplication for leave to appeal - hearing - non-appearance of the appellantat the commencement of the hearing - whether applicationshould be heard in theabsence of the appellant
The appellant is the tenant of residential premises in Paddington, Sydney (the subject residential premises). On 23 April 2014, the Tribunal below made a number of orders including orders under ss 87 and 89 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (RT Act), terminating the residential tenancy agreement and requiring possession to be given to the respondent landlord. The ground on which the Tribunal below terminated the residential tenancy agreement was the appellant's failure to pay the agreed bond amount or rent since the commencement of the agreement. 
On 30 April 2014, the appellant filed a Notice of Appeal. In a covering letter to the Notice, the appellant said:
Attached to the appellant's covering letter was a Westpac 'Electronic Pay Anyone Receipt'. The appellant's name was identified as the payer and the payment was stated to be in the account name of Bauer Family Holdings, for the sum of $5,700.00. 
On 5 May 2014, Deputy President S Westgarth, made the following orders in regard to the appellant's request for a stay:
The appellant and the respondent were provided with a copy of the orders together with brief reasons for decision. In those reasons, Deputy President S Westgarth said that the appeal should be made ready for hearing as soon as possible.
On 6 May 2014, the respondent's leasing agent, on behalf of the respondent, filed a Reply. In the Reply, the respondent said that he supported the orders made by the Tribunal at First Instance. It was noted that a copy of the orders made, on 23 April 2014, were hand delivered by the respondent's leasing agent that day by placing them under the door of the subject residential premises. The respondent reiterated that no rent or bond had been paid by the appellant since the commencement of the residential agreement. Attached to the Reply were a number of documents, including a copy of the following: (a) the respondent's 'Termination Notice of Residential Tenancy Agreement' dated 4 April 2014; (b) the abovementioned Westpac 'Electronic Pay Anyone Receipt',  (c) the respondent agent's trust account transaction report for the period 13 March 2014 to 6 May 2014,  (d) a Westpac Choice bank statement, in the name of the appellant, for the period 6 March 2014 to 27 March 2014,  (e) text messages and email correspondence between the respondent's agent and the appellant, (f) other correspondence relating to the residential premises . 
On 6 May 2014, the Registry of the Tribunal's Appeals Division forwarded, to the appellant, by email, a copy of the respondent's Reply and the attached documents, The respondent's leasing agent filed some additional material on 7 May 2014. This material we note was also emailed to the appellant, on the same day it was received at the Tribunal Registry. 
The appellant's appeal was listed for hearing, on 21 May 2014 at 9:15 am. At the commencement of the hearing, there was no appearance by the appellant. Ms Allie Ward and Mr David Gurame, of the respondent's leasing agency, appeared on his behalf.
For the reasons set out below, the Appeal Panel proceeded to hear the appeal in the absence of the appellant. At the conclusion of the hearing the Appeal Panel made the following orders: 
When making the orders, the Appeal Panel stated it would publish detailed reasons for decision at a later time. These are those reasons
On 4 April 2014, the respondent's leasing agent, on behalf of the respondent, made an application to the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, seeking a termination order under s 87 of the RT Act, on the grounds that the appellant had breached the residential tenancy agreement for having failed to pay the 'Bond or Rent since commencing the tenancy.' 
The practices of the Consumer and Commercial Division in determining applications under the RT Act were considered at length, by the Appeal Panel, in the Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17, at [5] to [14] and [43] to [68]. They remain relevant for the purposes of this appeal, but it is unnecessary to repeat them in these reasons for decision. 
In this appeal, the Tribunal's file, at First Instance, contains a copy of a 'Notice of Conciliation and Hearing', dated 7 April 2014, addressed to the appellant (being the respondent below) at the subject residential premises. The Notice stated that a copy of the application of the respondent (being the applicant below) was enclosed. The Notice stated the respondent's application was listed before the Tribunal, on 'Wednesday 23rd April 2014 at 11:15 AM (AEST)' and that the appellant was required to appear. The Notice also provided details of the location where the matter was to be conciliated and heard.
A 'Notice of Conciliation and Hearing' addressed to the representative of the respondent is also contained on the file.
It is normal practice of the Registry of Consumer and Commercial Division to generate these Notices once a hearing date has been allocated to the matter. The Notices are then posted, in the ordinary course of the mail, to the addressee, on or shortly after the date the Notices were issued. That date being the date of the Notice.
On 23 April 2014, the Tribunal Member at First Instance noted, on the 'Appearance Record', that Ms A Ward appeared as agent for the respondent and that there was no appearance by the appellant. 
The Tribunal Member also made the following notations on the 'Hearing Notes': (a) Ms Ward was sworn to give evidence; (b) the date of the tenancy agreement was 20 March 2014. The rent payable was $950, payable on the Friday of each week and the term of the agreement was 104 weeks from 21 March 2014 to 17 March 2016; (c) the bond amount was zero and no bond had been lodged; (d) a s88 Non-Payment Termination Notice had been issued on 4 April 2014 and had been personally served on that date; (e) the termination date on the Notice was 18 April 2014 and as at the date of the Notice being received by the appellant she was 15 days in arrears; (f) the Notice was valid; (g) the premises were not vacant; (h) the arrears claimed were $4,478.60; (i) the total number of days in arrears at the date of hearing was 33 days, and the daily rate was $135.70. 
On 23 April 2014, the Tribunal at First Instance made the following orders:
The Tribunal's First Instance file does not contain a copy of material that Ms A Ward presented at the hearing in support of the respondent's application. Nor is there any indication on the file as to what was presented. The file does, however, contain two copies of a 'Notice of Order', dated 23 April 2014. One is addressed to the appellant and the other, to the respondent. Each Notice sets out the orders that were made on that day. At the bottom of each page of each Notice is a statement setting out the parties rights, under subs 62(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013. That right being a right to make a request the Tribunal provide a written statement for reasons for its decision, within 28 days of being given notice of that decision.
While this appeal did not raise an issue about the nature of the evidence presented to the Tribunal at First Instance, the absence on the Tribunal's file of copies of this evidence or a record identifying that evidence was of concern to the Appeal Panel. In Collins (supra), at [62], the Appeal Panel set out guidelines in this regard so far as it relates to uncontested residential tenancy matters involving relatively small amounts of unpaid rent or other similar small claims in the Consumer and Commercial Division. These guidelines were in the following terms:
The Appeal Panel went on to re-iterate that these guidelines 'should not be taken as precluding or discouraging the giving of oral reasons' and if written reasons are subsequently requested they should be made within 28 days. If a request for written reasons were to be made or an appeal was lodged, the Tribunal Member or the appeal panel should have before them the evidence, or a note thereof, that support the orders that were made.
The Tribunal's First Instance file notes that a copy of the 'Notice of Order' addressed to the appellant was posted to her at the subject residential premises. 
No request for a written statement for reasons was made by either party to these proceedings.
At the request of the respondent, on 29 April 2014, the Deputy Registrar of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, issued a warrant for the enforcement of the order, made on 23 April 2014, for possession of the subject residential premises. The Tribunal's First Instance file, contains a copy of the request, the warrant that was issued and a copy of a letter, dated that day, addressed to the appellant at the subject residential premises informing her of the warrant for possession having been issued on the basis that she had not complied with the orders that had been made. The warrant was not executed following the decision of the Appeal Panel to grant a stay of the possession order that had been made. 
Section 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, makes provision for internal appeals. It relevantly provides:
As explained in Collins (supra), at [15] to [17], the Tribunal has only one form for an internal appeal, which is called a Notice of Appeal: see also Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2010] NSWCATAP 22, at [8]. That form requires the party seeking to appeal from a decision of the Tribunal at First Instance to indicate whether the party seeks to appeal on a question of law, or whether leave to appeal on other grounds is sought. 
In her Notice of Appeal, the applicant identified the following orders as being those she challenged on appeal:
The appellant went on to list the following matters as the reason why she considered the Tribunal at First Instance was wrong when it made the orders from which she appealed:
The orders sought by the appellant were as follows:
On her Notice of Appeal the appellant went on to state that she was making an application for leave to appeal. The reasons she gave as to why the Appeal panel should grant her leave to appeal, the appellant said:
As the appellant sought leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, she gave particulars of the matters the Appeal Panel is required to be satisfied of under cl 12 of Schedule 4 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013. That cl relevantly provides as follows:
In her Notice of Appeal, in response to the question as to why the decision was not fair and equitable, the appellant said:
In response to the questions as to why the decision at First Instance was against the evidence the appellant said she was not aware of what evidence was presented by the respondent/applicant at the hearing as she did not receive notice of the hearing. She also said that as she did not receive notice of the hearing, she 'could not submit [her] evidence being bank transfer'.
And in response to the questions about evidence that is now available, that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing, the appellant said:
In his Reply, the respondent said that he supported the orders made by the Tribunal at First Instance. In regard to the orders made on 23 April 2014, the respondent also said:
A copy of that letter and email were attached to the respondent's Reply.
In reply to the grounds relied on by the appellant in her Notice of Appeal, the respondent said:
In his Reply, the respondent also noted that he objected to an extension of time, in that the appellant lodged her Notice of Appeal at the last minute, after the warrant had been issued. As the appellant's Notice of Appeal was lodged within the time prescribed, we have not considered this issue any further.
In light of the Appeal Panel having determined to proceed with the appeal in the absence of the appellant, it is important to set out the relevant correspondence between the Principal Registry and the appellant in regard to the listing of the hearing of the appeal.
On Wednesday 14 May 2014, the Appeals Support Officer, of the Tribunal's Principal Registry, forwarded an email to the appellant seeking her available dates for a hearing of her appeal. The period for which her availability was sought was between 26 May and 27 June 2014. 
The appellant responded the same day, by telephoning the Appeals Support Officer, who noted the appellants availability as not being available from 23 May to 9 June 2014 and that any day after 9 June was 'OK' by her. 
On the morning of Friday, 16 May 2014, the Appeals Support Officer forwarded, by email, a Notice of Hearing to the appellant and the respondent. That Notice advised the parties that the appellant's appeal had been listed for hearing, on Thursday 22nd May 2014 at 11:00am. The location of the hearing was stated to be Level 10, 86-90 Goulburn Street Sydney and the parties were advised that they were both required to attend. 
Shortly, after the email was sent, the appellant sent an email to the Appeals Support Officer, in which she said:
The Appeals Support Officer responded shortly thereafter and said:
The appellant sent a further email stating that she was departing on 22nd May at 9am. In response the Appeals Support Officer said that she would refer the appellant's request for an adjournment to the Appeal Panel Member for consideration and asked the appellant if she wished to add any further documents in support of her request. The appellant responded to say that she would scan and email her flight confirmation - she just needed to get her scanner to work. 
The Appeals Support Officer also sent an email to the respondent's agent advising that the appellant had made a request for an adjournment of the hearing as she was travelling overseas. The respondent's agent relied as follows:
Later that afternoon, the Appeals Support Officer sent an email to the parties in which she said:
On Monday, 19 May 2014, a fresh Notice of Hearing was issued and sent to the parties by email and express post. That Notice stated that the date and time of hearing was 'Wednesday 21 May 2014 at 9:15 AM'. The specified location was the same as that contained in the earlier Notice.
Shortly, after the Appeals Support Officer had sent her email, the appellant sent an email in response stating that she was unavailable on 21 May and she reiterated her earlier conversation, regarding her availability, in that she was only available after 9 June 2014. The appellant also said 'If you had asked me if I was available this week I would have told you that I am in a conference today, Tuesday and Wednesday.' The Appeals Support Officer responded in an email stating:
The appellant sent a further email at 1:55pm on 20 May 2014, in which she re-iterated her unavailability on the following day. In response the Tribunal's Project Officer said that the appellant's email would be put on the file for consideration at the hearing. 
The hearing of the appellant's appeal commenced, as scheduled, at 9:15 am on 21 May 2014. As noted above, Ms A Ward and Mr D Gurname appeared as agents for the respondent. However, there was no appearance by the appellant. 
Ms A Ward informed the Appeal Panel that the appellant remained in possession of the subject residential premises and that she had not made any payments in accordance with order 5 of the Tribunal at First Instance. That is, as at the date of the appeal hearing, the respondent had received no payment, in respect of rent or bond, from the appellant since she took possession of the premises on 20 March 2014. After hearing some brief submissions by Ms A Ward and Mr D Gurname as to whether the matter should proceed in the absence of the appellant, the Appeal Panel determined that it should proceed.
That decision was made, having regard to the guiding principles set out in subs 36(1) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, and on the basis that the Appeal Panel was satisfied, on the material before it: (a) the appellant had received a copy of the respondent's Reply and the documents on which it would rely, (b) there was no additional material on which the respondent sought to rely and the respondent was ready to proceed, (c) the material on which the appellant relied in support of her appeal was attached to her Notice of Appeal and despite the orders made on 5 May 2014, no further material had been filed by her, (d) the matter was not complex, but involved a fundamental breach, by the appellant, of the residential tenancy agreement she had entered one month earlier, on 21 March 2014, for which the respondent had obtained judgment, in his favour, before the Tribunal at First Instance, and (e) there was no evidence that the appellant had made any further payments in rent as ordered by the Tribunal at First instance, and (f) the appellant had received notice of the hearing date as well as the time and location of that hearing and while the applicant had indicated she was not available on this day she failed to provide any evidence to support an adjournment of her appeal hearing. At the same time, to delay the hearing of the appeal would prejudice the respondent who asserts no payments have been made by the appellant since she took possession of the subject residential premises and as a consequence the amount of outstanding rent continues to increase. In this regard the Tribunal noted that even if the appellant were to establish that she had made the asserted payment, at the time of hearing there remained a large amount of outstanding rent. 
The Appeal Panel then heard some further short submissions form the respondent's representatives and adjourned the hearing briefly to consider the material in regard to the substance of the appellant's appeal. 
During the course of this adjournment, a member of the Appeals Registry staff advised the Appeal Panel that he had been informed that the appellant was in attendance at the Registry of the Consumer and Commercial Division, in Castlereagh Street. As the distance between this venue and level 10 of 86-90 Goulburn Street is no more than a 10 to 15 minute walk away, the Panel requested the Appeals Registry staff member to advise that the appeal was proceeding, however, in light of the appellant not being far away, the Panel would await 15 minutes before continuing so that the appellant had time to walk to level 10. 
Approximately 20 minutes later the Appeal Panel was advised by the Appeals Registry staff member that he had been informed that the appellant had collapsed at the Registry in Castlereagh Street and an ambulance was being called. 
For the reasons stated above, the Appeal Panel, decided to continue with the hearing in the absence of the appellant. 
The matters specified by the appellant, in her Notice of Appeal, as the reason why she considered the Tribunal at First Instance was wrong, do not identify any errors of law. The matters specified are matters of fact. Nor did the appellant request an appeal as of right. As noted above, the essence of the appellant's appeal is an application for leave to appeal on each of the grounds set out in cl 12 of Schedule 4 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013. For the reasons set out below, the Appeal Panel found that the appellant had failed to establish any of these grounds.
As the appellant was not legally represented and her application for leave to appear was based, on an assertion of not being notified of the hearing at First Instance, the Appeal Panel also gave consideration to a possible claim of denial of procedural fairness, which, if established, is an error of law. 
As set out below, in Collins, at [77], the Appeal Panel noted that a claim of denial of procedural fairness, fell within the terms of the cl 12(1)(a) ground of the decision not being 'fair and equitable'. As the Appeal Panel found that the appellant had failed to establish this ground, the Appeal Panel concluded that for the same reasons set out below, had the appellant appealed, as of right, on the basis of a denial of procedural fairness, a similar finding would have been made. 
In Collins (supra), at [66], the Appeal Panel noted that cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act vests the Appeal Panel with a discretion to grant leave to appeal where it is satisfied the appellant has suffered 'a substantial miscarriage of injustice' because of one or more of the matters set out in sub paragraphs (a) to (c) in that clause. In that matter, the Appeal Panel went on to note that the clause appeared to be based on s 68(2) of the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (NSW) as it applied prior to 1 January 2014. 
The Appeal Panel also considered what was meant by the phrase 'substantial miscarriage of justice' and at [76], it held:
In this appeal, in regard to the ground that the decision of the Tribunal at First Instance was not fair and equitable (cl 12(1)(a)), the appellant asserted she was not notified of the hearing and was unable to attend and submit her evidence.
As noted by the Appeal Panel, in Collins, at [77], citing Hutchings v CTTT  [2008] NSWSC 717 at  [35] and Atkinson v Crowley  [2011] NSWCA 194 at  [12]:
In this appeal, in her covering letter to her Notice of Appeal, the appellant said she received notice from the Tribunal (CTTT) of the respondent's application. (it is noted that since 1 January 2014, the CTTT ceased to exist and is now the Consumer and Commercial Division of this Tribunal: see cl 3 of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013).The appellant asserted that this notice was sent by email.
Having regard to the Tribunal's file at First Instance, as noted above, a notice addressed to the appellant was issued a few a days after the respondent had lodged his application. That notice was a standard form of 'Notice of Conciliation and Hearing', dated 7 April 2014, and located, on the file, immediately after the respondent's application for a termination order. This is the only Notice, addressed to the appellant, issued by the Tribunal, prior to the 23 April hearing. Furthermore, the Notice states a copy of the respondent's application was attached. At the same time there is no record on the Tribunal's file of an email address for the appellant. Accordingly, the overwhelming inference is that the Notice, referred to by the appellant in her letter attached to her Notice of Appeal, was the 'Notice of Conciliation and Hearing'. That Notice contained the details of the hearing date, time and location.
It is noted that rule 13(2)(b) of Part 4 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (the Rules) makes provision for the service of a notice or document, required to be served under the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, or the statutory rules made under that Act, to be served by post, addressed to the person concerned at that person's address for service, or if the person does not have an address for service the last known business or residential address of the person. 
Accordingly, the Panel was not satisfied that the appellant had not received notice of the hearing of the respondent's application at First Instance.
The Appeal Panel also formed the view that the appellant's immediate response to Ms Ward's text message, of 29 April 2014 was consistent with its finding. In her text message, sent late that afternoon, Ms Ward said:
The appellant responded by saying 'I wl advise you via email when I get home.' That night, the appellant sent the following email message to Ms Ward:
Had the appellant not had notice of the hearing, the response would have differed and been one of extreme surprise and annoyance that a hearing had been held, without the appellant's knowledge, especially where the orders made were adverse to her interests. 
In regard to the appellant's arguments in support of her claim that the decision of the Tribunal at First Instance was against the weight of evidence, the Appeal Panel formed the view that these were misconceived. As indicated by the terms of cl 12(1)(b) of Schedule 4 of the Act, this ground is based on the material that was before the Tribunal Member at the time the decision was made. In this appeal, the appellant appears to have assumed that the material on which she now relies was not before the Member at First Instance. Whether it was, or was not, is unclear. Nevertheless, on the basis of the appellant's assumption, the appropriate ground is that set out in cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 of the Act. 
As noted above, to satisfy cl 12(1(c), the appellant must establish that she has evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing of the respondent's application before the Tribunal at First Instance. In this regard the appellant relies on the Westpac 'Electronic Pay Anyone Receipt' (Westpac Receipt) attached to her Notice of Appeal. This document, the appellant asserts to be proof of payment, by her, on 21 March 2014, to the respondent's leasing agent's trust account for bond (i.e. four weeks of rent) and two weeks of rent in advance. 
The Appeal Panel formed the view, on the material before it, the appellant had failed to establish this ground, as it was evident that the document was available well before 23 April 2014. Furthermore, the Panel was not persuaded that the document on its own established that payment had in fact been made, as asserted by the appellant. 
As noted above, a copy of the appellant's Westpac Receipt was attached to the respondent's Reply. Also attached to the Reply was a copy of a one page Westpac bank statement, in the name of the appellant, for March 2014.
It appeared that the appellant had given both documents to Ms Ward, some time prior to 1 April 2014, as proof of her having paid the bond and two weeks rent. On 1 April 2014, in a text message to the appellant, Ms Ward made reference to the appellant's bank statement and her initial Westpac payment. The former she asserted to have been falsified and the latter she asserted to have been stopped by the appellant. The appellant responded later that evening and said 'the bank statement is not falsified and the funds wr not stopped by westpac ...' On 3 April 2014, there were further email exchanges between the appellant and Ms Ward. 
In her email, on this day, Ms Ward said that if no funds were received from the appellant by the following day, a termination notice would be served on her. Ms Ward also said that the agency had contacted the local police who had visited to inspect the alleged 'fraudulent bank statement' provided by the appellant. In her email response that day, the appellant reiterated that payment had not been stopped and the 'bank statement is not fraudulent'. It is noted that Ms Ward and the appellant made a number of further allegations against each other. As these allegations are of no relevance to this application for leave to appeal we have considered them no further. Nor has and the appellant placed before the Appeal Panel any bank statements and in light of this we have not considered the statement attached to the respondent's Reply. 
Nevertheless, the content of the email and text message exchanges, between the appellant and Ms Ward, indicate that the document, on which the appellant relied in her application for leave to appeal, was available well before the respondent's application was heard, at First Instance. That is, it is evidence that was available at the time of the hearing on 23 April 2014. It appeared to have been provided, by the appellant, to Ms Ward, some time prior to 31 March 2014, as evidence of her having made payment, on 21 March 2014, of the bond and 2 weeks rent in advance. It was also clear from the communications between Ms Ward and the appellant, that Ms Ward did not accept the Westpac receipt as evidencing payment having been made. It was on this basis that the respondent served on the appellant, on 4 April 2014, the s88 Non-Payment Termination Notice. In an email, sent that day, the appellant acknowledged receipt of that notice and the basis on which it had been issued - namely her failure to pay any rent or bond. 
Even if the Westpac Receipt was not reasonably available as at 23 April 2014, the document appeared to be no more than a receipt of a request by the appellant, made at 13:49 AEDT, on 20 March 2014, for the payment of $5,700.00, to the 'Bauer Family Holdingws '(sic) account, for the appellant's 'bond/rent'. In a text message to Ms Ward, in response to an earlier request as to what 'Westpac had to say?' followed by a number of requests about when payment would be received, on 31 March 2014, the appellant said:
The Panel noted the respondent's leasing agent's trust account transaction report, attached to the Reply, was named the 'Bauer Family Holdings P/L trading as Ray White Bondi Beach'. That report, as pointed out by Ms Ward at the hearing, was a record of payments received into that account, during March and April 2014, for amounts between $5,000 and $6,000. There was no record of an amount of $5,700 having been received into the account during this time. 
In the absence of the appellant producing a document that might evidence her request for payment having in fact been made prior to the 23 April hearing, the Appeal Panel could only infer that payment of rent and bond remained outstanding as at the date of the hearing of the appeal. 
For the reasons set out above, the Appeal Panel was not satisfied that the appellant had established any of the grounds set out in cl 12(1)(a) to (c) of Schedule 4 of the Act. Hence it was not necessary for the Appeal Panel to consider whether the discretion to grant leave to appeal should be exercised in favour of the appellant. In light of the Appeal Panel's findings it made the following orders:
############# I'm default separator ##########25
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - residentialtenancies - whether cancellation of rental rebate arrears
This appeal concerns weekly rebates of rental which may be granted, under Part 7 (ss 54 to 58) of the Housing Act 2001 (NSW) (the Housing Act) or previous policies to a similar effect, to a tenant who is renting social housing. The particular issues which arises is whether retrospective cancellation of such rebates leads to there being rent which had not been paid on time by the tenant. 
On 31 January 2014, the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal dismissed an application by the appellant/landlord for an order terminating the residential tenancy agreement between the appellant and the respondent/tenant and for an order for possession of the premises in question - New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation v Diab (31 January 2014, Application No SH13/00016). The ground for termination relied upon by the appellant in its notice of termination was that the respondent had breached his tenancy agreement by "not paying rent on time". The rent said not to have been paid on time was an amount equal to the weekly rebates of rental to which the respondent was no longer entitled because the appellant had cancelled the rebates retrospectively (as it was permitted to do). 
For the reasons set out below, the Appeal Panel has decided that non-payment of the amount of the cancelled rental rebates does not constitute not paying rent on time in breach of the residential tenancy agreement for the purposes of the appellant's notice of termination and ss 82, 87 and 88 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) (the RT Act). Accordingly, the appeal should be dismissed. 
The facts found by the Tribunal below include what is set out in the following paragraphs. The respondent entered into a written tenancy agreement in respect of the premises in question with the New South Wales Department of Housing on 15 October 1990. It was not in dispute that the appellant succeeded the Department as the owner of the premises and the landlord under the tenancy agreement and was entitled to bring these proceedings. 
The terms of the tenancy agreement in its original form included that the weekly rent was $180 per week, and this has generally been referred to as the "market rent". As the Appeal Panel understands it, the market rent could be increased from time to time in accordance with the relevant procedures for so doing under s 41 of the RT Act or similar provisions of the earlier Act.
Under the agreement, the tenant's obligation was "to pay rent in advance which is due every Monday at any office listed on the rent account card". 
Clauses 26 and 27 of the agreement were as follows: 
In 1990, the respondent lived in the premises with his wife and four teenage sons. 
This tenancy agreement is now characterised as a social housing tenancy agreement, as defined in s 136 of the RT Act. 
In May 2011, the respondent's wife died and he reported to the appellant that three of his sons had returned home to live with him. In June 2011, the appellant received information from an anonymous source that the respondent's sons had always resided at the premises. The appellant commenced an investigation into the allegation. As the Appeal Panel understands it from submissions made by the parties, the significance of the respondent's sons residing at the premises was that they earned income and that their income may not have been disclosed, in accordance with cl 27 of the tenancy agreement and for the purposes of determining whether and what rebate of rental the respondent should be granted. 
The rental rebate was cancelled by the appellant with effect from 7 November 1993 because the appellant determined that the respondent had not disclosed that his sons had been living with him at the premises. The respondent sought a review of that cancellation decision which was unsuccessful. He did not, however, seek judicial review of the decision to cancel his rental rebate. 
Given that the appellant decided to cancel the rental rebate with effect from 7 November 1993, it can be accepted that at least by that date the respondent had been granted a weekly rebate of rent payable under his tenancy agreement with the appellant (or its predecessor). 
At all relevant times prior to the appellant's decision to cancel the rental rebate the respondent paid the rebated rent, that is the market rent payable weekly under the tenancy agreement less the weekly rebate of rent which he had been granted. On cancellation of the rental rebate by the appellant, the respondent commenced paying the market rent payable under his tenancy agreement. 
The appellant relied in the Tribunal at first instance upon the assertion that the respondent was in arrears of rent. The amount of those arrears was a sum exceeding $100,000. This amount of arrears was determined by calculating the difference between the applicable market rent from the date the cancellation of the rental rebate took effect, that is 7 November 1993, and the rent actually paid by the respondent and applying that sum to the respondent's rental account with the appellant. But for the cancellation and the subsequent debiting of the respondent's account with the difference between the market rent for the premises over the years and the rebated rent the respondent had paid, there would have been no rental arrears on the respondent's rental account. There was no part of these rental arrears which was attributable to the respondent's failure to pay the correct or full rent after the rebate was cancelled. 
It was not in dispute that the respondent had not paid the amount of more than $100,000 applied to his rental account consequent upon the cancellation of the rental rebates by the appellant. 
At first instance, the appellant sought an order terminating the respondent's tenancy agreement on the ground that he had breached the agreement by not paying rent on time and other consequential orders. The termination notice dated 11 December 2013 on which the appellant relied was given under s 88 of the RT Act. In the termination notice the appellant alleged that the respondent had breached the tenancy agreement by "not paying rent on time". No other breaches of the agreement were specified in the notice. 
The Tribunal below found that the procedural and formal requirements of ss 82, 87 and 88 of the RT Act had been satisfied and as a result the Tribunal's decision would turn upon: (1) whether the respondent breached the tenancy agreement by not paying rent on time as alleged in the termination notice;
In relation to those issues, the Tribunal below declined to follow previous decisions of the Residential Tribunal and the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal, Department of Housing v Christodoulou [1996] NSWRT 8 and Department of Housing v Elkazzi [2004] NSWCTTT 6333, and rejected the proposition that the debt that arises on retrospective cancellation of weekly rebates of rental constitutes rent arrears arising from a failure to pay rent on time. Consequently, the Tribunal was not satisfied that the respondent had breached the tenancy agreement in the manner asserted in the termination notice. As a result of this, the Tribunal dismissed the appellant's application. 
The appellant appealed against this decision under s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act). This was the appropriate avenue of appeal - see New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation v Diab [2014] NSWCATAP 8. The notice of appeal was lodged on 14 February 2014 but on 31 March 2014 the appellant filed, in accordance with a direction of the Appeal Panel, an amended notice of appeal in which the grounds of appeal were reformulated. In the amended notice of appeal the appellant relied on two grounds of appeal:
However, in the appellant's written submissions dated 9 April 2014, the appellant indicated (at [3]) that it no longer relied upon the second ground but reserved "the right to defend any proceedings which accept into evidence material which seeks to impugn Housing's decision to impose the rent arrears/cancel a tenant's subsidy". 
Accordingly, on this appeal the Appeal Panel will only consider the two related questions raised by the first ground of appeal in the amended notice of appeal, namely: (1) whether the debt arising from the cancellation of the weekly rebates of rent should be characterised as rent arrears, that is, rent that had not been paid on time pursuant to the residential tenancy agreement; and
In order to address these questions it is essential to consider not only the relevant residential tenancy agreement but also the provisions of the Housing Act and the RT Act which are applicable. 
Weekly rebates of rental have been able to be granted under Part 7 of the Housing Act, since 1 July 2001. Part 7, ss 54 to 58, has provided since that time: 
It was common ground that, prior to the introduction of Part 7 on 1 July 2001, the landlord (whether the respondent or its predecessor, the Department of Housing) also granted weekly rebates of rental under a policy developed by the landlord. This was not done, however, under the Housing Act 1985 (NSW) since there was no provision in that Act permitting or referring to rebates of rental. The policy which existed at the time the residential tenancy agreement in its original form was entered into was referred to in cl 26 of that agreement. That clause contained the express agreement of the parties that "in accordance with such policy the Department may grant a rebate or waive rent at its discretion". There was no specific evidence as to the terms of this policy at the time the agreement was entered into although some parts of the policy, in its present form, not as it was in 1990 to 1993, were referred to in submissions below and one part was read to the Appeal Panel. 
The Tribunal's power to terminate a residential tenancy agreement is found in the RT Act. It can be noted here that the parties also referred to the Residential Tenancies Act 1987 because the tenancy the subject of the appeal commenced in late 1990 and the decisions relied upon by the appellant and referred to in the reasons for decision below were made under the 1987 Act. However, there was no issue taken that there was any relevant amendment to the legislation or any relevant difference between the 1987 Act and the 2010 Act which might affect the outcome of the appeal. In these reasons we deal with the provisions of the 2010 Act, only specifically referring to the 1987 Act where it is necessary to do so. 
The termination notice which was the foundation for the application at first instance relied on a breach of the residential tenancy agreement solely arising from failure to pay rent. The termination notice was issued to the respondent pursuant to s 88 of the RT Act. That section states:
Section 82 of the RT Act specifies some of the matters which must be included in a s 88 termination notice:
Section 87 confers on the Tribunal the power to terminate a residential tenancy agreement in a case of breach. It provides:
Section 152 sets out additional matters to be considered if the residential tenancy agreement is a social housing tenancy agreement. None of its provisions is, however, relevant in the present appeal. 
When s 88 of the RT Act uses the expressions "failure to pay rent" and "the rent has remained unpaid in breach of the agreement for not less than 14 days before the notice is given", the "rent" referred to is defined in s 3(1) of the RT Act as follows: 
The only substantive provisions of the RT Act which refer to rental rebates are ss 136 and 141. Those sections provide, in part:
It was not in dispute that the appellant was a social housing provider and that the respondent was a tenant under a social housing tenancy agreement. Section 141 would permit the respondent to apply to the Tribunal for an order declaring the rent payable under the tenancy agreement in this case is excessive. No such application has been made by the respondent and he has paid rent at the applicable market rate without a rebate since his rental rebate was cancelled. 
Of the two issues raised in the grounds of appeal relied upon by the appellant the first which will be addressed is whether the debt arising from the cancellation of the weekly rebates of rental should be characterised as rent arrears, that is, rent that had not been paid on time pursuant to the residential tenancy agreement. 
The appellant submitted in effect that the cancellation of the weekly rebates of rental retrospectively from 7 November 1993 had the consequence that the respondent owed the appellant the total amount of the weekly rebates of rental of which he had had the benefit from 7 November 1993 to the date of cancellation but to which he had not been entitled. This is correct and this is the amount which was referred to in s 57(4) of the Housing Act and is the debt which is recoverable by the appellant from the respondent under s 57(5). 
It was further submitted, however, that the debt which arose on cancellation of the rental rebates should be characterised as rent arrears or rent that had not been paid on time pursuant to the residential tenancy agreement because the respondent, not being entitled to the weekly rebates of rental, had been obliged to pay the full market rent at all times from 7 November 1993 but had failed to do so. The amount the respondent had failed to pay each week was the amount of the weekly rebate of rental to which he was not entitled because it had been cancelled. 
The respondent submitted that this characterisation of the amount of the weekly rebates to which the tenant was not entitled as arrears or rent should be rejected on the basis that: (1) the granting of the rebate changed the contractual relationship under the residential tenancy agreement such that the landlord agreed to accept the rebated rent in full satisfaction of rent payable under the agreement;
It is essential, in addressing this issue, to understand how the debt arising from the cancellation of the respondent's weekly rebates of rental came about. For the period after 1 July 2001, the granting and cancellation of weekly rebates of rental was governed by Part 7 of the Housing Act. Under s 56 of that Act, the appellant could grant to an applicant such as the respondent "a weekly rebate of rental" and the amount of the rebate was to be determined by the appellant "in accordance with guidelines approved by the Minister". This is apparently what occurred in the present case. The appellant granted the respondent weekly rebates of rental under Part 7 of the Housing Act after 1 July 2001. The Appeal Panel and the Tribunal at first instance had no specific evidence or information as to the policy or policies under which rental rebates were granted prior to 1 July 2001. 
Under s 57(1) of the Housing Act, the appellant could, after conducting an investigation under s 58 of the Housing Act, cancel "any rental rebate granted under this Part [Part 7, ss 55 to 58, of the Housing Act]". The appellant did conduct such an investigation and decided to cancel the respondent's rental rebate. In accordance with s 57(2), the appellant determined that the cancellation was to take effect from 7 November 1993. In determining this date of cancellation, the appellant apparently treated the rental rebates granted between 7 November 1993 and 30 June 2001, in addition to those for the period after 1 July 2001, as having been granted under Part 7 of the 2001 Housing Act. It is not necessary for the Appeal Panel to reach a conclusion on whether that approach is correct as it does not affect the conclusion reached by the Panel. Were it necessary to decide that matter, specific evidence as to the policies under which rental rebates were granted prior to 1 July 2001, the basis upon which they could be cancelled and the consequences of cancellation would be required. 
Under s 57(4), the appellant was then entitled, by notice in writing to the respondent, to require the respondent to pay to the appellant "an amount equal to any rental rebate ... received by the tenant on or after the date that the ... cancellation took effect to which, because of the ... cancellation, the tenant was not entitled" together with interest. 
In addition, if the respondent did not pay that amount referred to in s 57(4) plus interest, under s 57(5) the appellant could recover that amount plus interest "as a debt in any court of competent jurisdiction". The lack of a reference to the Tribunal in s 57(5) means that, although the Tribunal is empowered under s 187(1)(c) to make an order for the payment of an amount of money, that provision would not allow the Tribunal to make an order for the payment of the debt referred to in s 57(5) of the Housing Act. In any event, such a monetary claim even if it were possible would be limited by the application of cl 23 of the Residential Tenancies Regulation 2010 to $30,000.00 for a claim in regard to a bond, or $15,000.00 in any other case.
It can be noted here that there is no express provision in Part 7 of the Housing Act allowing the appellant to recover the "amount equal to any rental rebate ... received by the tenant on or after the date that the ... cancellation took effect to which, because of the ... cancellation, the tenant was not entitled" as rent under the residential tenancy agreement. The only mechanism for recovery of that amount established by the Housing Act in s 57(5) is that the amount is recoverable as a debt in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
Furthermore, the RT Act provides no express guidance on how the amount referred to in s 57(4) and the debt recoverable under s 57(5) of the Housing Act should be regarded for the purposes of a residential tenancy agreement to which it relates or for the purposes of an application for termination under ss 87 and 88 of the RT Act. 
Since neither the Housing Act nor the RT Act expressly deals with the question of whether the debt recoverable under s 57(5) constitutes arrears of rent or rent not paid on time, it is necessary to turn to the tenancy agreement in order to consider whether that debt can be so characterised under the tenancy agreement. 
In the absence of express statutory guidance, whether the amount of the cancelled rebates referred to in s 57(4) and recoverable as a debt under s 57(5) are properly to be characterised as rent arrears in the sense of rent that had not been paid on time pursuant to the residential tenancy agreement depends on the terms and proper construction of that agreement. 
The Appeal Panel has only the somewhat limited findings made by the Tribunal below as to the terms of the original residential tenancy agreement entered into on 15 October 1990. The specific obligation to pay rent was in the following terms: "to pay rent in advance which is due every Monday at any office listed on the rent account card". The full weekly rental, referred to in these proceedings as the market rent, at the commencement of the tenancy was $180 per week and increased in accordance with s 41 of the RT Act or similar provisions of the earlier Act. As noted above, the other terms of the original tenancy agreement included cll 26 and 27. 
Clause 26 referred to the Department of Housing (the landlord at the time of entry into the agreement) formulating a policy for the granting of rebates of rent and recorded that the "parties agree that in accordance with such policy the Department may grant a rebate or waive rent at its discretion." 
In the present case: (1) at least from 7 November 1993, the respondent was granted weekly rebates of rental in accordance with a policy formulated by the Department of Housing as expressly contemplated by cl 26 and as a consequence the appellant did not require the respondent to pay on a weekly basis the market rent but only the market rent less the amount of the weekly rebate of rental (the rebated rental); 
In the light of the matters referred to in the preceding paragraph and as a result of the fact that the appellant continued to grant to the respondent the right of occupation of the premises for the purpose of use as a residence in return for the respondent paying the rebated rent, the Tribunal below in effect found these arrangements and changes to be part of the continuing residential tenancy agreement. There was no error in so finding. 
It was appropriate to conclude that these arrangements became part of the residential tenancy agreement in this matter, in effect superseding in part and supplementing in part cl 26 and other relevant provisions of the original form of the tenancy agreement, especially those requiring the respondent to pay the market rent. The residential tenancy agreement for the relevant period was, thus, partly in writing and partly to be inferred from conduct - see County Securities Pty Ltd V Challenger Group Holdings Pty Ltd [2008] NSWCA 193 at  [2] and [7] where Spigelman CJ comments upon contracts inferred from conduct and note the comments of Basten JA in Johnston v Brightstars Holding Company Pty Ltd [2014] NSWCA 150 at  [122] to [124]. 
Clause 27 imposed an obligation on the respondent "to notify the landlord in writing of all income and any subsequent changes to the income of the tenant and of all other persons residing in the premises." This term may have particular relevance where a rental rebate is granted on the basis that the income of all the persons residing in the premises is, in total, so low that the granting of a weekly rebate of rental would be appropriate under the relevant rental rebate policy or guidelines. Nonetheless, the express wording of cll 26 and 27 does not make the granting of a rental rebate as contemplated by cl 26 conditional upon compliance with cl 27. 
In the circumstances, the terms of the residential tenancy agreement after the respondent was granted the rental rebates were, in relation to the payment of rent, to the effect that, while ever the respondent was entitled to a weekly rebate of rental, the appellant agreed that it would accept the rebated rental paid weekly in accordance with the agreement in full satisfaction of the respondent's obligation to pay for the right to occupy the premises. After 1 July 2001, the weekly rebate was always subject to potential cancellation under s 57(1), with the consequences which flowed under s 57(4) and (5). The Appeal Panel was not taken to any material that provided information as to cancellation or the consequences of cancellation of weekly rebates prior to 1 July 2001. 
Thus, while the respondent was entitled to a weekly rebate of rental, if he paid the rebated rental on a weekly basis, he was not in breach of his obligation "to pay rent in advance which is due every Monday" under the residential tenancy agreement. After the weekly rebate of rental was cancelled under s 57(1) of the RT Act, if the respondent paid the market rental each Monday, he was not in breach of that obligation. 
These conclusions do not, however, address the issue of whether the retrospective cancellation of the weekly rental rebates had the consequence that the respondent could be found to have beached the residential tenancy agreement every week from 7 November 1993 to the date of cancellation by failing to pay the full amount of the market rent on time. As the Appeal Panel understands it, the appellant's position had inherent in it the proposition that the retrospective cancellation of the rental rebates meant that the respondent was in breach of the tenancy agreement because of failure to pay rent on time for every week between 7 November 1993 and the date of cancellation notwithstanding that before the cancellation he was not in breach. 
The Appeal Panel has difficulty accepting this proposition. The difficulty arises because the obligation which is said to have been breached as a result of retrospective cancellation was an obligation to pay a certain amount at a particular time. Generally, whether the payment by the respondent discharged his obligation to pay rent at a particular time must be considered at the time of the payment. To take a very specific example, on Monday 2 February 2009 (being a date before the appellant cancelled the rebates of rental) the respondent had the benefit of a weekly rebate of rental which the appellant had granted to him. If on that Monday he paid to the appellant the rebated rent for the week beginning from that day, he could not have been found to have breached the residential tenancy agreement by failing to pay rent on time in respect of that week. The later cancellation of the rebate did not, absent some term in the residential tenancy agreement to that effect or some equivalent statutory provision, convert conduct which, at the time of the conduct, discharged the respondent's obligations under the tenancy agreement into conduct which breached those obligations at that time. 
This conclusion is consistent with the reasoning of the predecessor to the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal, in NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Bergman [2008] NSWCTTT 1201. In that matter, the Land and Housing Corporation sought orders for termination and possession of premises the subject of a residential tenancy agreement on the basis of failure to pay rent on time. The tenant had been granted a weekly rebate of rental by the Corporation. Under s 57(3) of the 1987 Residential Tenancies Act (in substance the same as s 88(1) of the RT Act), a termination notice given by a landlord on the ground of a breach of the agreement to pay rent had no effect unless the rent had remained unpaid in breach of the agreement for not less than 14 days before the notice was given. The principal question for the Tribunal in Bergman was whether the tenant was 14 days in arrears of rent as at the date of service of the notice of termination. The market rent was $200.00 per week but the tenant was entitled to a rental rebate of $147.30 per week so that the rebated rent was $52.70 per week. The amount of rent unpaid as at the date of service of the notice of termination exceeded $105.40 (the figure of $103.40 in the report of the decision appears to be a typographical error) but was apparently less than $400. It was argued on behalf of the tenant that because the tenant did not owe $400 or more (that is 2 weeks of rent at $200 per week), she had not been in breach of the agreement to pay rent for not less than 14 days. This was said to follow because the rent which the tenant agreed to pay under the residential tenancy agreement was the market rent not the rebated rent. Senior Member Durie held in that matter:
This decision supports the conclusion that in determining whether the tenant has failed to pay rent on time, it is the actual amount payable at the relevant time, the rebated rent if a rental rebate has been granted and not the market rent, which must be considered when determining whether there has been a failure to pay rent on time. 
The appellant also submitted that the Tribunal below erred in holding that the appellant waived the portion of the rent constituted by the weekly rebates of rental. The Senior Member sitting in the Tribunal below did not express her conclusions by reference to waiver. As the Appeal Panel has stated above, the Senior Member's reasoning was that granting the rebate and continuing to permit the respondent to reside in the premises if he paid the rebated rent weekly had the effect of varying or amending the original contractual relationship between the parties such that the amount the respondent was required to pay in order to occupy the premises, while he had the benefit of the weekly rebates of rental, was the rebated rent. As stated earlier, there was no error in this approach. Furthermore, this reasoning was not inconsistent with the weekly rebates of rental being able to be cancelled under s 57 of the Housing Act, with all the statutory consequences which flowed from cancellation. 
The appellant did not draw the Appeal Panel's attention to any term of the residential tenancy agreement which expressly dealt with the effect of cancellation of rebates of rental. On the material available to the Appeal Panel, it should be concluded that the residential tenancy agreement did not provide that retrospective cancellation of weekly rebates of rental had the effect of rendering a tenant in breach of the agreement if the tenant had, at the time of payment, been granted a weekly rebate of rental and had paid the rebated rent on time. There was no term of the residential tenancy agreement specifying that cancellation of rental rebates rendered the respondent liable for non-payment of the rebates of rental to which he was not entitled as rent not paid on time. 
In addition, there was no provision in the tenancy agreement as it applied after at least 7 November 1993 that the amount required to be paid each week notionally included the rebated portion. There was no provision that the respondent was liable to pay the rebated portion only so long as he complied with the agreement or any particular term or terms of the agreement. There was no provision that the respondent remained liable to pay the market rent while he was receiving the benefit of rental rebates, or that the difference between the rebated rent and the full market rent was in some unspecified manner notionally accumulating as rental arrears in the event that the rebate were cancelled retrospectively. 
Similarly, it was not suggested that the RT Act, the Housing Act or any other legislation contained a provision that a retrospective cancellation of rental rebates meant that a tenant was in breach of the agreement by failing to pay rent on time when the tenant had in fact paid the rebated rental on time. 
Indeed, the definition of "rent" in the RT Act provides some, albeit equivocal, support for the view that such a conclusion should not be adopted. Under the RT Act, "rent" is defined in s 3(1) as "an amount payable by a tenant under a residential tenancy agreement for the right to occupy premises for a period of the agreement." In the present case where the rent was payable weekly, "a period of the agreement" refers to each one week period of the tenancy. 
During the time when the respondent had been granted weekly rebates of rental by the appellant (or its predecessor), the amount payable by the respondent under the residential tenancy agreement for the right to occupy the premises each week was in fact the rebated rent, that is, the market rent less the weekly rebate of rental. Thus, for the purposes of the RT Act the "rent" in respect of the respondent's residential tenancy agreement from at least 7 November 1993 until the date when the rebates were cancelled was the rebated rent payable for each week during that time. Accordingly, a failure to pay "rent" for the purposes of the RT Act would only have occurred during that time if the respondent had not paid the rebated rent due in respect a relevant week. 
In the absence of any term in the residential tenancy agreement establishing that the retrospective cancellation of the rental rebates led to a breach of the obligation to pay rent on time or legislation to a similar effect, the consequences which flowed from cancellation of the rebates of rental were only those specified in the Part 7 of the Housing Act, and in particular in s 57. Thus in the present case the cancellation of the rebates of rental under s 57(1) had no consequences other than the following: (1) after the cancellation, the respondent was required to pay the market rent each week in order to discharge his obligation "to pay rent in advance which is due every Monday" under the residential tenancy agreement;
The appellant was not left without a remedy in relation to the rental rebates to which the respondent was not entitled following cancellation of rental rebates under s 57 of the Housing Act. Nonetheless, s 57 does not establish a regime whereby the amount referred to in s 57(4) or the debt referred to in s 57(5) could be recovered as "rent" payable at the time when each of the payments of rebated rent had been made. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel concludes that the amount of the rebates of rental to which the respondent was no longer entitled because of the cancellation of those rebates under s 57(1) was a debt owed by the respondent to the appellant but that amount did not constitute rent arrears in the sense of rent that had not been paid on time pursuant to the residential tenancy agreement. 
In addition to the arguments dealt with above, the appellant also relied upon a number of additional submissions. The Appeal Panel will deal with these before turning to the issue of whether the respondent breached the residential tenancy agreement by not paying rent on time. 
First, the appellant's submissions included an argument to the effect that the respondent's entitlement to the weekly rebates of rental was conditional on his compliance with cl 27 of the tenancy agreement. As a result, if he did not comply with that clause at any particular time, he was not entitled to the rental rebates at that time. Thus, on each occasion when he was in breach of cl 27 and he paid only the rebated rent, he was in breach of the residential tenancy agreement and failed to pay the full amount of rent due on time. 
This argument depends upon it being a term of the tenancy agreement that entitlement to the weekly rebates of rental was conditional upon compliance with cl 27. There was no such express term in the residential tenancy agreement. Nor would it be implied upon the usual principles relating to the implication of terms in a contract as set out in Codelfa Construction Pty Ltd v State Rail Authority of NSW [1982] HCA 24;  (1981) 149 CLR 337 at 347. Moreover, such a term could not be included in the tenancy agreement in the light of the prohibitions contained in s 19 of the RT Act (and ss 42 and 43 of the 1987 Act). Section 19 states:
Given the definition of "rent" in the RT Act, a term that failure to comply with cl 27 had the effect that the respondent was liable to pay "increased rent" being the market rent rather than the rebated rent could not be included in a residential tenancy agreement as a result of the operation of s 19(2)(d). Similarly, under s 19(2)(e) a term that if the respondent did not breach cl 27, the respondent was or might be paid a rebate of rent would also be prohibited. 
Secondly, the appellant also relied upon two decisions of predecessor tribunals of the Tribunal to support its position. These were Department of Housing v Christodoulou [1996] NSWRT 8 and Department of Housing of New South Wales v Elkazzi [2004] NSWCTTT 633. 
In Department of Housing v Christodoulou [1996] NSWRT 8, the Member of the Residential Tribunal in that matter held that:
This was based upon his "perspective" that "rent in relation to Department of Housing Tenancies means at all times the market rent then payable". It was also held that "[e]xperience has shown" that the grant or withdrawal of a rebate was not connected with compliance with the terms of a tenancy agreement. 
In relation to the particular circumstances of Mrs Christodoulou, however, the Member found that "in this case Mrs Christodoulou always paid $101.50 per fortnight being the rent abated to that figure pursuant to a grant of rental rebate" and then concluded:
The conclusion is consistent with payment of the rebated rent satisfying the obligation to pay rent under the tenancy agreement and inconsistent with the rent due always being the market rent. 
The Appeal Panel does not accept that any statement of principle of general application can be extracted from this decision. Further, given the terms (both express and those arising by conduct) of the tenancy agreement the subject of these proceedings and the definition of "rent" in the RT Act, it would be inappropriate to apply any reasoning from Christodoulou in the present case. Under the residential tenancy agreement between the appellant and the respondent in this case, the "rent" payable each week was not at all times the market rent. 
There are further difficulties with Christodoulou which mean that it should not now be followed. The decision as reported does not provide a clear indication of the nature of the alleged debt. On one reading, the decision could be seen as referring to rental arrears arising only after the date the rebate was stated to have "lapsed". The Member adjourned the hearing because in his view the application raised a series of important issues being matters of public interest which required clarification "arising from the Department's standard tenancy agreement". Before the hearing recommenced, the applicant advised it wished to withdraw the application, treating the premises as abandoned. The Member refused leave to withdraw, stating that the matters of public interest needed to be decided. He then went on to consider eight separate issues most of which related to the wording of the Department of Housing's standard form of tenancy agreement current in 1996. It is not clear that these issues all related to the particular application before him. They were said to be matters of, and were discussed as matters of, public or general interest. Having considered those issues, including those discussed in the previous paragraph, the Member gave consent to the withdrawal of the application. None of the issues discussed by him, or the conclusions reached by him in relation thereto, were said to be necessary to his decision granting consent. Furthermore, it is not clear to what extent the issues upon which the Member opined were the subject of full submissions or argument before him. 
In Elkazzi the Senior Member was responding to a submission of the tenant that accumulation of the debt, being the difference between a rebate to which the tenant was not entitled and the market rent, was a "fiction". This arose in the context of the practice of the appellant (at least at that time) of entering for each payment period the weekly market rent as a debit, and then two credit amounts, one being the rebated rent paid weekly by the tenant and the other a payment made by the landlord of the amount of the weekly rebate of rent. There was no evidence that the second such payment was actually made, rather than being a book entry. The submission was that, on cancellation of the rental rebate, the debt recoverable under s 57(5) arose and this had been debited to the tenant's rental account but "[a]s the money has been paid to the tenant the Corporation cannot seek to recover that sum as rent arrears". The Senior Member rejected the submission on the following basis:
The Senior Member at first instance in this matter was correct not to accept the reasoning in Elkazzi. She noted that the tenancy agreement in the case, the subject of this appeal, did not make the granting of a rebate conditional on compliance with the terms of the agreement and that a term to that effect could not be implied into the agreement. The Appeal Panel's reasons for rejecting the proposition that the entitlement to the rental rebates was conditional upon continuing compliance with the obligations contained in cl 27 have been set out above. Further, the Panel does not accept that the rebates of rental operate as a contractual conditional waiver of part of the obligation to pay rent which could result in a tenant being retrospectively in breach of the tenancy agreement by non-payment of rent on time, even though at the time of payment of the rebated rent the tenant would not have been in breach. In the Panel's view, the consequences of cancellation of rebates of rental and the remedies available to recover the amount of the rebates to which a tenant was not entitled because of retrospective cancellation are those expressly provided in s 57 of the Housing Act. These do not include retrospectively rendering the tenant liable for breach of the tenancy agreement because of non-payment of rent on time. 
Further, to the extent that the Senior Member below found that while the respondent had the benefit of the rental rebates, he was also subject to the obligations in cl 27, we do not accept that she was thereby stating that his receipt of that benefit was in a contractual sense conditional upon compliance with cl 27. The facts that might have established non-compliance with cl 27 were also likely to have been relevant to the appellant's investigation under s 58 of the Housing Act and its decision to cancel the rebates of rental under s 57(1). The cancellation process under ss 57 and 58 and the consequences of cancellation under s 57(4) and (5) are founded upon the Housing Act and do not depend for their efficacy upon the terms of the residential tenancy agreement. 
The decision and reasoning in Elkazzi should not be followed. 
In the light of the conclusion that the debt arising under s 57(5) in the present case did not constitute rent that had not been paid on time and given that the respondent had paid all other amounts due in respect of rent under the residential tenancy agreement, it follows that the respondent did not breach the tenancy agreement by not paying rent on time as alleged by the appellant. Accordingly, Senior Member Rosser did not fall into error by concluding that the respondent had not breached the tenancy agreement by failing to pay rent on time for the purposes of s 87(4)(a) of the RT Act. 
In these circumstances the question of whether the breach was, in the circumstances of the case, sufficient to justify termination of the agreement under s 87(4)(b) did not arise. 
It should be observed here that the appellant might have alleged other breaches of the tenancy agreement and have sought a termination order under s 87 of the RT Act on bases other than non-payment of rent on time. It did not do so. The notice of termination only alleged breach of the residential tenancy agreement by "not paying rent on time". This being the case, there was no other breach which could relevantly have formed the basis for a termination order in the present proceedings. 
For the reasons above, the appeal should be dismissed.
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel makes orders as follows: (1) The appeal is dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########26
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -interlocutory decisions - leave required - principles applicableto leave toappeal
BHO is a 54 year old man who incurred a severe traumatic brain injury when he fell from a ladder in 2010. He is involved in litigation relating to workers compensation and medical negligence. His former wife alleges that he recently assaulted her. That matter is listed for hearing on 27 May 2014. Because of concerns relating to BHO's involvement in various court proceedings, the First Respondent, his rehabilitation case manager, applied to the Guardianship Division of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal for a guardianship order. 
The Appellant, a solicitor, applied for leave to represent BHO. The Guardianship Division refused his application for an adjournment and then refused to give leave for him to represent BHO. The Appellant has appealed to the Appeal Panel against those decisions. Because the decisions are interlocutory decisions the Appellant requires the Appeal Panel's permission before the appeal can go ahead. 
We refuse to give BHM permission to appeal against the Guardianship Division's decisions for two reasons. Firstly it is not necessary to do so to ensure the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 35. Secondly, it is not necessary to give leave to ensure that BHO's interests are given paramount consideration: Guardianship Act 1987
BHM purported to appeal against seven orders or decisions that he said the Guardianship Division had made on 6 May 2014. BHM is only entitled to appeal against interlocutory decisions which come within the definition of that term and to which he was a party. Interlocutory decisions are defined in s 4 of the NCAT Act: 
An interlocutory issue or decision is, generally speaking, a decision that does not finally determine the rights of the parties. The Guardianship Division made the following two interlocutory decisions on 6 May 2014: (1) The Tribunal refuses leave to [BHM], an Australian legal practitioner, to represent [BHO] in all proceedings pending at the Tribunal. (2) BHO be separately represented in all proceedings pending before the Tribunal.
While the Guardianship Division did not make a formal order refusing BHM's application for an adjournment, the tape recording of the hearing discloses that the Senior Member refused that application, if not expressly, then impliedly. 
As BHM was not a party to the guardianship application, he is not entitled to appeal against the decision to appoint a separate representative for BHO. The only two interlocutory decisions made on 6 May 2014 to which BHM was a party, were the decisions to refuse him leave to represent BHO and the decision to refuse to adjourn that application. 
The general rule in the Guardianship Division is that a party has the carriage of his or her own case and is not entitled to be represented by any other person: NCAT Act, s 45(1)(a). A party may be represented by another person only if the Tribunal grants leave for the person to represent the party: NCAT Act s 45(1)(b). 
The Tribunal may, at its discretion, grant or refuse leave under s 45(1)(b). The person who applies for leave to represent a party is a party to that application but not to the proceedings generally.
NCAT is empowered to "adjourn proceedings to any time and place": NCAT Act, s 51. 
The Appeal Panel's permission, or leave, is required before a person can appeal against an "interlocutory decision": NCAT Act, s 80(2)(a). The legislation does not provide any guidance as to the considerations that are relevant when determining whether to grant leave. Those principles must be derived from the objects of the Act and the nature of the appeal. 
The 'guiding principle' of the NCAT Act is "to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings": s 36. The purpose of requiring leave to appeal from interlocutory decisions is to save costs and to make sure that the real issues in dispute are determined justly and quickly. But the importance and complexity of the subject matter is also relevant: 
Finally, it is critical to bear in mind the general principles in the Guardianship Act 1987
While there is no rigid test or criteria for the granting of leave, the Supreme Court has set out relevant principles which, depending on the circumstances, may also apply to the Appeal Panel when considering leave applications against interlocutory decisions.
Some of the principles which we regard as relevant to this appeal were summarised by Campbell JA in Jaycar Pty Ltd v Lombardo [2011] NSWCA 284 at  [46]: 
The degree of injustice that would be suffered by the respective parties as a consequence of any order or direction is another relevant consideration: Civil Procedure Act 2005 (NSW), s 58(2)(b)(vi).
BHM submitted that the prejudice to BHO if leave is refused is that he will be deprived of the opportunity to have a legal representative of his choosing and with whom he can communicate. 
The difficulty with this submission is that BHO's ability to provide instructions to a solicitor is in doubt. The basis for the Guardianship Division's decisions to refuse an adjournment and refuse leave for BHM to represent BHO, was that there was evidence both from medical practitioners and from BHM himself, that BHO is not capable of providing instructions to a solicitor. That evidence included a report from Dr Alexandra Walker, a neuropsychologist, who expressed the view in a report dated 15 April 2014 that, even with assistance, BHO is incapable of providing meaningful and informed legal instructions to his solicitor.
BHM is the subject of a financial management order. The NSW Trustee is his financial manager. The NSW Trustee needs to approve any proceedings instigated by or against BHO because of the potential financial implications that such proceedings may have. The NSW Trustee has a fee agreement with BHM in relation to proceedings for professional negligence against one of BHO's former psychiatrists and in relation to his defence of BHO against the charge of assaulting his former wife. 
A client must have the capacity to enter a contract for legal services. A lawyer must be reasonably satisfied that their client has the mental capacity to give instructions. Otherwise, he or she must not represent the client: Goddard Elliott (a firm) v Fritsch [2012] VSC 87 at  [569] per Bell J. Based on the evidence before it, the Guardianship Division decided that it was preferable for BHO to be represented by a "separate representative" whose role it is to conduct the proceedings in his best interests. 
BHM submitted that the Guardianship Division breached the rules of procedural fairness by failing to grant him an adjournment. He said that he wished to obtain a full copy of the guardianship application and the material referred to in that application before applying for leave to represent BHO. 
The Guardianship Division refused the adjournment and went on to determine BHM's application for leave. We do not consider that the decision to refuse the adjournment involved any breach of procedural fairness in circumstances where the threshold issue was BHO's capacity to instruct a solicitor. BHM was aware of BHO's limitations and acknowledged that while BHO could provide factual information, he was not capable of providing instructions in relation to the forensic or strategic aspects of litigation to which he was a party. 
We have concluded that leave to appeal against two interlocutory decisions of the Guardianship Division should be refused because: (1) this appeal involves no question of principle which is subject to doubt nor will refusing leave result in any injustice;  (2) the welfare and interests of BHO are best served by the appointment of a separate representative in circumstances where there is strong evidence that he lacks capacity to instruct a solicitor;  (3) granting leave would unnecessarily delay the matter which is listed for hearing on 20 May 2014; and (4) granting leave would subject the parties to further costs which would be disproportionate to the issue in dispute.
############# I'm default separator ##########27
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - practice andprocedure - appeal from interlocutory decision requiringleave to appeal -principles for granting leave - whether decision more than arguably wrong -importance of finality and proportionality- public interest and injustice
The Appellant, Mr Bratby, is aggrieved because he says that the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT) did not accept two claims that he made against the Respondent who was his landlord. The Tribunal dismissed those claims in January 2014 because Mr Bratby had lodged them outside the prescribed time period. Mr Bratby says that the Tribunal should have accepted the claims because in September 2013 a Member of NCAT's predecessor, the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal, had accepted them. 
We have decided not to give Mr Bratby permission to appeal against the Tribunal's January 2014 decision. The reasons are that the appeal lacks merit, the interests in the finality of decision making outweigh any potential injustice and there is no issue of general or public importance involved. 
This appeal is being determined without a hearing because a hearing is not required in proceedings for the granting of leave for an internal appeal: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2014 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 50(1)(a). 
On 30 January 2014 the Consumer and Commercial Division of NCAT decided not to accept two claims by Mr Bratby against his landlord, Ms Blain, because they had been lodged out of time. The time limit for applying for an order in relation to a breach of a residential tenancy agreement is 3 months after the tenant becomes aware of the breach: Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW), s 190(1) and Residential Tenancies Regulation (NSW) 2010, cl 22(9). There was no dispute that the claims, which were lodged on 5 July 2013, were out of time or that the Tribunal has power to extend time: Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001(NSW), s 81. 
The two claims which the Tribunal did not accept concerned a claim for electricity paid by Mr Bratby and a claim for compensation for painting material left a the tenanted premises. The application lodged by Mr Bratby does not identify the amount of compensation being sought except to say that he had received a statement for electricity totalling $13657.22 and that the painting material cost him $121.40.
Because this appeal relates to an 'interlocutory decision' of the Tribunal, (a decision concerning the extension of time for any matter including for the lodgement of an application) Mr Bratby needs the Appeal Panel's 'leave' or permission before the appeal can go ahead: NCAT Act, s 4 and s 80(2)(a). 
Mr Bratby's ground for seeking leave to appeal is that at a directions hearing in September 2013 Member Sponza accepted his claims out of time. Mr Bratby says that when hearing his claims in 2014, the Tribunal should have recognised that order. 
At the hearing on 30 January 2014, Mr Bratby provided the Tribunal with the following excerpt from a transcript of the earlier hearing before Member Sponza:
Mr Bratby also wrote in his Notice of Appeal that he brought the audio recording of the 26 September 2013 hearing to the hearing on 30 January 2014 hearing and offered it to the Tribunal. 
At [7] of the Tribunal's reasons for decision dated 10 February 2014, the Tribunal acknowledged that Mr Bratby had written to the registry about this issue in October 2013, but found that there was no record of an order accepting the claims out of time: 
At [12] the Tribunal gave its reasons for refusing to accept the claims out of time: 
The legislation does not provide any guidance as to the considerations that are relevant when determining whether to grant leave. Those principles must be derived from other sources including the objects of the Act and the nature of the appeal. 
The 'guiding principle' of the NCAT Act is "to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings": s 36. The purpose of requiring leave to appeal from interlocutory decisions is to save costs and to make sure that the real issues in dispute are determined justly and quickly. But the importance and complexity of the subject matter is also relevant: 
While there is no rigid test or criteria for the granting of leave, the Supreme Court has set out relevant principles which, depending on the circumstances, may also apply to the Appeal Panel when considering leave applications against interlocutory decisions.
The principles which we regard as relevant to this appeal are: (1) in relation to the merits of the appeal, an Appellant needs to demonstrate something more than that the Tribunal's conclusion was 'arguably wrong': Carolan v AMF Bowling Pty Ltd [1995] NSWCA 69 (followed in Zelden v Sewell [2011] NSWCA 56 at  [22]), per Sheller JA at [2]; and (2) where small claims are involved it is important that there be early finality in determination of litigation, otherwise the costs that will be involved are likely to swamp the money sum involved in the dispute: Carolan v AMF Bowling Pty Ltd [1995] NSWCA 69 at  [6] per Cole J; (3) the Appeal Panel should take into account the degree of injustice that would be suffered by the respective parties as a consequence of any order or direction is another relevant consideration: See Civil Procedure Act 2005 (NSW), s 58(2)(b)(vi).
In relation to the merits of the appeal, we have listened to the audio tape recording of the hearing before Member Sponza on 26 September 2013. Mr Bratby was present but the landlord, Ms Blain, was not. While the excerpt set out above at [8] is a correct transcription of Member Sponza's words, when these words are viewed in the context of the entire proceedings, it is more likely that the Member was referring only to the claim relating to the bond, not to the two claims that are the subject of these proceedings. 
Member Sponza begins by asking Mr Bratby whether the 'bond issue' was dealt with in previous Tribunal proceedings. Mr Bratby says that it was not. After looking at the file, Member Sponza says:
Member Sponza then questions Mr Bratby about issues relating the bond. After some discussion Member Sponza says, "I'll make an order for the refund of the $500. That's the only order I can make today." 
The discussion then turns to the other two claims relating to alleged breaches of the tenancy agreement. Member Sponza points out that Mr Bratby has not filed any evidence to support those claims. Ultimately Member Sponza agrees to adjourn the hearing in relation to those claims so that further evidence can be filed. 
On the basis of the tape recording of the hearing on 26 September 2013 an Appeal Panel hearing this appeal would be likely to find that the order extending time related only to the claim about the rental bond. Such a conclusion would be supported by the fact that the prescribed period for applying for an order as to the payment of the amount of a rental bond, is within 6 months after the bond is paid. The time for applying for an order in relation to a breach of a residential tenancy agreement is 3 months after the applicant becomes aware of the breach: Residential Tenancies Regulation 2010
While we accept that Mr Bratby has the impression that all three of his claims were accepted out of time in September 2014, he is unlikely to be able to prove that that was the case on appeal. 
The amount in dispute is small. The Tribunal found that the amount of electricity that was likely to have been used by the landlord was insignificant. If this matter were to proceed, the costs involved to all would be likely to swamp the amount in dispute. 
Finally, apart from the potential loss of the small amount of money involved, there is no injustice to Mr Bratby if leave is refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########28
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -application for leave to appeal - no significant miscarriageof justice - nosignificant new evidence identified - application denied
The appellant seeks leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division made on 30 January 2014 dismissing its claims for relief for breaches of warranties under the Home Building Act 1989 (NSW) (the HB Act). The claims were dismissed on the basis that they had been made outside the relevant period under ss 18E and 48K of the HB Act. 
In an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, the Appeal Panel is significantly constrained by the provisions of cl 12 of Schedule 4 to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act). Whilst recognising the harshness of the consequences for the appellant which will flow from this decision, for the reasons set out below, the Appeal Panel has concluded that it cannot be satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on any of the grounds identified in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c). Accordingly, leave to appeal cannot be granted in this matter. 
The appellant is a statutory body corporate known as the Owners - Strata Plan No 76269. Strata Plan No 76269 relates to a strata development located in Amy Street, Regents Park. The respondent, Draybi Bros Pty Ltd, was the builder which carried out the building work for the strata development. 
By an application lodged in the former Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (the CTTT) on 14 November 2012, the appellant sought, amongst other things, rectification of alleged defective building work and an order for payment of an amount of $480,000 on the ground that the respondent had breached the statutory warranties under Part 2C, and in particular s 18B, of the HB Act in respect of the building work for the Amy Street strata development. No causes of action other than breach of the statutory warranties were relied upon. In claiming for breach of warranties under the HB Act, the appellant relied on the extension of the benefit of the warranties to a successor in title under ss 18C and 18D of that Act. 
The building work on the Amy Street development had been carried out in 2004 and 2005. Thus, the question arose as to whether the application lodged on 14 November 2012 should be dismissed because it was made out of time, more than 7 years after the building work was completed, and because the CTTT did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the application. Hearings in the CTTT on this preliminary question took place on 28 March 2013 and 4 June 2013 and further written submissions and some documentary evidence was received by the CTTT on 8, 23 and 29 July 2013. The CTTT reserved its decision. 
On 1 January 2014, the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales (NCAT) was established and on its establishment the CTTT was abolished: see s 7 of the Act and cl 3 of Schedule 1. In accordance with the transitional provisions of the Act, in particular cl 7 of Schedule 1, the Deputy Chairperson of the CTTT who had heard the matter prior to 1 January 2014 continued to sit and determine the matter as a Principal Member of NCAT. 
On 30 January 2014, the Principal Member delivered his decision dismissing the appellant's application together with his reasons for decision in the matter. 
On 17 February 2014 the appellant lodged a notice of appeal under s 80 of the Act. 
It can be noted here that the Tribunal's notice of appeal form is a multi-purpose form which allows a party seeking to appeal to complete just one form whether the party is asking for an extension of time in which to appeal, asking for leave to appeal, seeking a stay of the orders or decision appealed from or simply appealing as of right from an internally appealable decision. In addition, the form allows the party to provide other information, submissions and evidence in support of the application or applications the party might be making. This course has been adopted in the Tribunal having regard to the requirement that the Tribunal act with as little formality as the circumstances of the case permit and without regard to technicalities or legal forms (s 38(4) of the Act) and the requirement that the Tribunal's practice and procedures should be implemented so as to facilitate the resolution of issues between the parties in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject matter of the proceedings (s 36(4) of the Act). Having one multi-purpose form has the benefit that a person seeking leave to appeal from an internally appealable decision of the Tribunal only has to obtain and complete one form and does not have to file a draft notice of appeal in addition to their application. In these circumstances and for the sake of simplicity, a party completing a notice of appeal form is called an appellant, even if technically that party might more precisely be considered to be an applicant for leave to appeal. 
The decision appealed from in this matter can be characterised as a final decision of the Tribunal dismissing the application and making consequential orders. In addition, in so far as the decision was based upon the conclusion that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the application it could also be characterised as an "ancillary decision" within the definition of that term in s 3(1) of the Act. 
Section 80 of the Act provides:
In its notice of appeal the appellant sought leave to appeal under s 80(2) and did not assert that the appellant was appealing as of right on a question of law. 
As the decision at first instance was a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 to the Act applied so as to restrict the ability of the Appeal Panel to grant leave to appeal. Clause 12(1) provides:
The expression "Division decision" in cl12(1) is defined in cl 1 of Schedule 4 and includes a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division when it is exercising functions under the HB Act by virtue of the definitions of "the Division" and "Division function" in cl 1 and the provisions of cl 3(1) of Schedule 4. 
Given the requirements of cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 to the Act, the notice of appeal form also requires an appellant to indicate whether the decision appealed from is a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division. If so and the appellant is seeking leave, the appellant is then required to address in the form whether there may have been a substantial miscarriage of justice on one or more of the 3 grounds specified in cl 12(1)(a), (b) and (c) of Schedule 4. The information is to be provided under the following 3 headings:
In its notice of appeal, the appellant provided information under each of these headings. The particular information given in this regard will be addressed below when the Appeal Panel considers each of those grounds. Attached to the notice of appeal was a statutory declaration of Mr John Hadchiti dated 15 February 2014 which provided additional information and attached a number of documents. 
Although an application for leave to appeal may be dealt with on the papers under s 50(1)(a) of the Act, the Appeal Panel considered that it would be more appropriate in the present case to conduct an oral hearing in the matter. Accordingly, on 24 March 2014, the Panel gave directions for the parties to file and serve any further evidence upon which they wished to reply and any written submissions on the question of leave to appeal. The application for leave to appeal was heard on 20 May 2014. 
At the hearing of the application for leave to appeal, the appellant relied upon the information provided in the notice of appeal, the statutory declaration of Mr Hadchiti dated 15 February 2014 and an affidavit of Mr Hadchiti of 14 April 2014. With respect to the "new evidence" relied upon by the appellant for the purposes of cl 12(1)(c), which evidence was contained in the statutory declaration and affidavit, it was accepted that such evidence was tendered on the basis that it was material indicating the nature and extent of the "new evidence" and was not relied upon in this hearing as establishing the truth of the matters stated in such evidence.  
In response, the respondent relied upon the affidavits of Mr R Draybi of 7 February 2013, 27 March 2013 and 12 May 2014, Mr A Draybi of 5 April 2013 and 12 May 2014 and Mr G Hayek of 9 May 2014. 
The appellant submitted that the Appeal Panel could grant leave to appeal because it may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on each of the 3 bases referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) and (c) namely: (1) the decision appealed from was not fair and equitable;
We shall deal with each of these bases relied upon by the appellant in turn. Before doing so, however, it is necessary to set out the statutory context to these proceedings and the substance of the decision at first instance in order to appreciate the significance of the matters said to render the decision not fair and equitable or against the weight of the evidence and in order to assess the significance of the "new evidence" for these proceedings.
The appellant's claims were only for breach of the statutory warranties arising under Part 2C of the HB Act. Under s 18E, proceedings for breach of statutory warranty were required to be commenced within a specified period. In its form as applicable in these proceedings (by virtue of clause 109 of Schedule 4 of the HB Act), s 18E relevantly provided:
In this case it was not in dispute that the work had been completed for the purposes of that section and, accordingly, the appellant had to commence its proceedings within 7 years after the completion of the work to which it related. 
The statutory period for commencement of the proceedings had a further role to play in these proceedings because the jurisdiction of the CTTT (and subsequently this Tribunal) was limited by reference to that period under s 48K(7) of the HB Act. At the time the appellant's proceedings were commenced on 14 November 2012, s 48K provided in part:
As a consequence of s 48K(7), the CTTT and subsequently this Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appellant's claims for breach of the statutory warranties if 14 November 2012, the date on which the application was lodged in the CTTT, was after the end of the period specified in s 18E, that is in the present case, 7 years after the completion of the work in question. 
The Appeal Panel notes that even if s 48K applied to the present proceedings in the form it was in between 2005 and early 2012, the effect would be the same as that set out in the preceding paragraph. During the period from before 2005 to early 2012, s 48K(7) mirrored the applicable wording of s 18E as follows:
Having regard to these statutory provisions, the Tribunal below was required to address the question of whether 14 November 2012, the date on which the application was lodged in the CTTT, was within the period of 7 years after the completion of the work in question. 
Section 3B of the HB Act makes provision for when residential building work is taken to be completed for the purposes of the HB Act. Although it was only inserted into the HB Act in 2011, s 3B is applicable in the present proceedings by virtue of cl 106 of Schedule 4 to the HB Act, Savings and Transitional Provisions. Clause 106 provides:
Section 3B provides:
Under s 3B(2), if the contract does not provide for when work is complete, completion of the work occurs on "practical completion of the work" as defined in s 3B(2) and (3). In the present appeal, it was not argued that the contract provided for when work was complete or that the date on which the contractor handed over possession had been established. Consequently, the works should be taken to have been completed for the purposes of ss 18E and 48K on the earliest of the following dates which could be established: (1) the date on which the contractor last attended the site to carry out work (other than work to remedy any defect that does not affect practical completion) - s 3B(3)(b); or
The Principal Member held, in determining whether the appellant's proceedings had been commenced within 7 years of completion of the work in question, that completion of the residential building work was to be determined in accordance with s 3B of the HB Act. As the contract under which the work was done did not establish a date by which the work was taken to be complete for the purposes of s 3B(1), completion of the work fell to be determined under s 3B(2) and (3). He then found after detailed consideration of the evidence before him and the parties' submissions that: (1) The occupation certificate had been issued on 15 November 2005; but,
Thus, completion of the residential building work was not later than 10 November 2005 having regard to the terms of s 3B(2) and (3). The appellant's application was filed in the CTTT on 14 November 2012 which was more than 7 years after 10 November 2005. Consequently, the Principal Member found that the appellant's application was filed out of time and on that basis the claim for breach of statutory warranties by the appellant should be dismissed. It also followed that by operation of s 48K(7) of the HB Act the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the matter. 
In these circumstances and apart from the specific legal tests the appellant in the present matter was required to satisfy or address, the appellant was in a practical sense required to focus upon reasons why it could be concluded both that: (1) The builder/respondent attend the site to carry out residential building work under the contract on or after 14 November 2005; and
Unless there was material to support both of those propositions referred to in the preceding paragraph, establishing that there may have been a substantial miscarriage of justice would be difficult if not impossible. 
Having regard to the statutory context and the decision at first instance, the Appeal Panel now turns to consider each of the 3 grounds relied upon by the appellant as satisfying the requirements of cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 to the Act so that the Appeal Panel can exercise its discretion on whether or not to grant leave to appeal. 
The appellant contended that the decision below was not fair and equitable within the meaning of clause 12(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to the Act on a number of bases some of which overlapped. These may be summarised from the material provided in the notice of appeal and the appellant's written and oral submissions as raising the following 3 issues: (1) The rolled kerb issue: Whether evidence concerning the rolled kerb work (sometimes referred to as the rolling kerb works) was not properly considered or fairly dealt with by the Tribunal below. That evidence was said to be significant because it established that the residential building work could not have been practically complete any earlier than 15 November 2005 and thus the claims were lodged within time. 
It is appropriate to deal with each issue in turn notwithstanding that there is some overlap between them. 
It was a condition of the development approval for the carrying out of the building work in question that a rolled kerb be installed along Minimus Lane. Minimus Lane gave vehicular access to the site of the strata development. In so far as it may be relevant, the rolled kerb was to facilitate vehicles safely passing each other when entering or leaving the development. 
The appellant's submissions in this regard depended in part upon the proposition that completion of the rolled kerb was essential to practical completion of the works. The lack of fairness and the inequity of the decision were relevantly said to arise out of a failure to give proper consideration to the evidence relating to the rolled kerb work. The appellant submitted in [21] of its written submissions that: 
The background to the claimed lack of fairness and the inequity by not giving proper consideration to the evidence relating to the rolled kerb work was submitted to be as follows: (1) Being the owners corporation and not involved in the actual building of the strata development, the appellant did not have direct knowledge of what occurred while the building work was being carried out and when it was completed.
Against that background, the appellant submitted that the decision was not fair and equitable because: (1) the respondent's submissions referred to above "were unsupported by any evidence. They were also false." and the respondent's conduct of its case was "at best forensically cute and at worst actively misleading" - see [26] and [30] of the appellant's written submissions; 
As to the contention that the respondent's submissions were unsupported by evidence, false, cute or misleading, this overlaps to some extent with the second issue - the misleading submissions and evidence issue. Nonetheless, the Appeal Panel will deal with the attack on the respondent's submission relating to the rolled kerb work here and will deal with the appellant's other submissions in relation to false evidence and other matters later. 
The Appeal Panel does not accept these submissions that the respondent's submissions were unsupported by evidence, false, cute or misleading for a number of reasons. 
First, the Tribunal below had before it plans of the site and the building works, the contract under which the work was performed and other material indicating the nature and location of the works. Before us, the appellant did not refer in detail to this evidence and did not seek to demonstrate by reference to the material which was before the Tribunal below that such material could not support a submission that the rolled kerb work fell outside the boundary of the site. Indeed, Auburn Council's email of 21 November 2005 referred to above stated that "Condition 26 of the DA 442/01 requires rolled kerb to be provided in Minimus Lane from the Development Site to Kitchener Avenue". This suggests that the rolled kerb work in question was not on the site of the development but went from the site down Minimus Lane to Kitchener Avenue. From the material before us and from the Tribunal's reasons for decision, the Appeal Panel is of the view that there is no sufficient basis for concluding that the submission complained of was without evidentiary foundation. 
Similarly, the material before the Tribunal below also defined the works to be carried out by the respondent/builder under its contract to perform the building work. The Appeal Panel was not taken to any of that material in detail and the appellant did not attempt to demonstrate that the material before the Tribunal could not possibly support the submission that the rolled kerb work was a minor omission that did not prevent the works from being reasonably capable of being used for their intended use. From the material before us and from the Tribunal's reasons for decision, we are satisfied that such a submission was open to the respondent in the circumstances. We therefore reject the submission that the respondent made submissions in this regard which were unsupported by the evidence. 
Furthermore, even if the respondent had made such submissions without any evidentiary support, it would not necessarily follow that the decision of the Tribunal which received those submissions could be characterised as not fair and equitable. The appellant would have to establish that the decision making process was tainted in some way by those submissions. If a party makes unfounded submissions to a court or tribunal, that does not have the consequence that the decision reached by the court or tribunal is unfair or inequitable. The appellant did not point to any defect in or tainting of the decision making process in the present case and we are not satisfied that the decision making process as revealed in the reasons for decision was adversely affected by submissions made by the respondent, whether or not they were well founded. 
Secondly, the appellant contended that these submissions of the respondent were false and forensically cute or actively misleading. Whilst it is no doubt the case that the appellant believed that the true facts were otherwise than the respondent submitted, this is insufficient to establish that the respondent's submissions in this regard were "false", "cute" or "misleading" so as to render any decision based on them not fair and equitable. As the Appeal Panel understood it, the appellant's argument was in effect that: (1) the respondent presented its case by having Mr Raymond Draybi, and later Mr Anthony Draybi, review the respondent's documentation including invoices from sub-contractors or tradesmen, and on the basis of that documentation give their "honest belief and understanding" of when certain work was completed;
This argument depends, in part, on the proposition that the respondent carried out the rolled kerb work. The support for this proposition is at best very weak. The evidence before the Tribunal at first instance did not unequivocally establish that proposition and the new evidence now sought to be relied upon (which is referred to in more detail below when the ground in cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 to the Act is being considered) is not clear that the work referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Mr Hadchiti's affidavit of 14 April 2014 was the rolled kerb work. In any event, even if the respondent had carried out the rolled kerb work, there is no reason to hold that this would prevent the respondent from submitting that such work was not part of the relevant building work for the purposes of ss 3B(2) and (3), 18E and 49K of the HB Act and also that any such work was "work (other than work to remedy any defect that does not affect practical completion)" within s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act. The course adopted by the respondent was permissible. The respondent was entitled to respond to the late documentary evidence put on by the appellant merely by way of submissions. The appellant could have sought the opportunity to have Mr Draybi recalled for further cross examination and to make further submissions to the Tribunal below on the respondent's failure to put on evidence concerning the rolled kerb work and on the submissions made by the respondent. The appellant did not do so. The appellant did not point to any other circumstance that satisfied us that the respondent's submissions in this regard were in fact false, cute or misleading. 
In addition, even if the respondent's submissions on this topic had been false, cute or misleading, this by itself would not render the decision not fair and equitable. It was not submitted that the Tribunal below was led by the respondent's submissions into some error which vitiated the integrity of the decision making process so that it was not fair and equitable. Indeed, at [29] of its written submissions, the appellant stated: "It is difficult to say how much weight the Tribunal gave to the Builder/Respondent's submission, because the Tribunal developed a more decisive theory of its own." Thus, it did not appear to be the appellant's case that the Tribunal even accepted the respondent's submissions which were the subject of the appellant's complaint. 
In the circumstances, the Appeal Panel rejects the submission that the respondent's submissions of which the appellant complains were unsupported by evidence, false, cute or misleading. Further, the Panel does not accept that those submissions of the respondent led to the decision below not being fair and equitable. 
As to the submission that the decision was not fair and equitable because the issues and arguments concerning the rolled kerb work were "not exercised" in the hearing, the Appeal Panel is of the view that this submission should also be rejected. The appellant obtained documents from Auburn Council in June 2013 and put them before the Tribunal in July 2013 without objection by the respondent. The appellant made submissions concerning those documents. It could have asked for leave to cross examine the respondent's witnesses on the basis of the information contained in those documents. It did not do so. It was not incumbent upon the Tribunal or the respondent to recall the respondent's witnesses to address that lately obtained evidence. From [68] of the reasons for decision, it appears that the main focus of the appellant's submission in regard to this material was to try to argue that the occupation certificate had not been issued on 15 November 2005. This submission was rejected by the Tribunal below and the appellant now accepts that finding - see [33] of the appellant's written submissions. 
The appellant was given a number of opportunities to address the issues in dispute at the hearing by way of evidence and submissions. The Tribunal below did not reach its decision by going outside those issues. The appellant has not pointed to anything that occurred in relation to the hearing, the evidence, the submissions or the reasons for decision concerning the rolled kerb work which leads to the conclusion that the decision was not fair and equitable. As the Panel perceives it, part of the substance of the appellant's complaint appears to be that it now believes that it could have made different submissions from the submissions it did make in the Tribunal at first instance. That circumstance does not render the decision reached by the Tribunal in the circumstances not fair and equitable. 
The other aspect of the appellant's case in this regard concerns the Tribunal's reasoning in [123] of the reasons for decision. The appellant submitted that this reasoning of the Tribunal was a "ramble of its own". Paragraph [123] of the reasons involves a number of findings or conclusions none of which, in the Appeal Panel's view, was precluded on the material available. It was not submitted that the Tribunal was wrong to find that there was no suggestion on the material before it that the rolled kerb work was ever done or that the work had not been done by 21 November and that was why the Council required a bond. Such findings and reasoning provide no basis for concluding that the decision was not fair and equitable. 
The observation by the Tribunal at [123] that the location of the rolled kerb work suggested that it was not part of the work required to be capable of being used for its intended purpose as the basis for determining practical completion of the work in question involved at least a partial acceptance of the respondent's submission concerning the location of the rolled kerb work being outside of the site. This had been canvassed in submissions made to the Tribunal at first instance. It did not involve the Tribunal deciding the matter on a basis of which the parties were not aware. This part of the reasoning in [123] does not support a conclusion that the decision was not fair and reasonable. 
The reasoning in [123] that, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, the fact that work may have been required to be done to the kerb and that the bond may not have been paid did not provide a basis to conclude that the respondent continued to work on the site on or after 14 November 2005, was logically correct and open to the Tribunal on the material before it. This conclusion may not in fact depend upon whether the work was essential or non-essential, which is a separate issue. 
In [123] the Tribunal also relied upon the issue of the occupation certificate as providing support for "the contrary conclusion", namely that the respondent did not continue to do relevant work on the site on or after 14 November 2005. When the respondent had last attended the site to do work within the meaning of s 3B(3)(b) was a matter in issue in these proceedings and the appellant should have been well aware of that issue when it came to put on its written submissions and evidence. It was open to the Tribunal to infer from the issuing of an occupation certificate by the relevant local council that the building work the subject of the certificate was completed except for any omissions or defects that did not prevent the work from being reasonably capable of being used for its intended purpose, to use the wording of s 3B(2) of the HB Act. The decision as a whole could not be said to be not fair and equitable because of this part in the process of reasoning. 
In its written submission before us, the appellant gave considerable emphasis to the question of the occupation certificate in [33] to [38] but did not press the argument vigorously in oral submissions. The substance of those submissions was that the issuing of occupation certificates by Auburn Council in the relevant period may have been flawed and it would not be safe to infer that because the occupation certificate was issued "there were only minor omissions". This is a submission that could have been made at the hearing if there were evidence to support it. Whether or not such an inference should be drawn as a matter of fact was a matter for the Tribunal at first instance. The submissions or material relied upon by the appellant in this regard do not establish that the decision as whole was not fair and equitable within cl 12(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to the Act. 
As to the remainder of the reasoning in [123], it may be the case that a requirement that the applicant for the Development Application in the present case pay a bond in lieu of completion of certain work before a step could be taken by the Council is somewhat more equivocal in leading to the conclusion that the respondent did not continue to work on the site on or after 14 November 2005 than the Tribunal suggested in the last sentence of [123]. Nonetheless, the requirement for the payment of a bond in lieu certainly does not establish: (a) that the work was ever carried out; (b) that the respondent, as opposed to some other contractor, attended the site to carry out the work; (c) that the work was carried out on or after 14 November 2005 or 10 November 2005; (d) that the work was work under the relevant building contract; or (e) that such work, if it was performed, was not work to remedy a defect that did not affect practical completion (within s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act). 
The appellant seeks to characterise the Tribunal's reasoning in [123] especially in relation to the "payment of the bond 'in lieu'" as the Tribunal going on a ramble of its own so as to render the decision as a whole not fair and equitable. The Appeal Panel is of the view that this is not so. The Tribunal was entitled to consider all of the evidence before it and draw such factual inferences from that material as it saw fit in relation to issues which both parties had had the opportunity to lead evidence and make submissions. The Tribunal's reasoning in [123] goes no further than that. There is nothing to suggest, nor did the appellant point to any circumstance which indicated, that it had been denied any opportunity to put its case in relation to the documents obtained from Auburn Council in June 2013. How the appellant chose to put its case in relation to those documents was a matter for the appellant. 
In oral submissions the appellant also submitted that the Tribunal below erred in construing the email concerning the payment in lieu because it did not require more evidence from the respondent concerning the rolled kerb work before reaching the conclusion it did. The Appeal Panel does not accept that it was incumbent upon the Tribunal to require the respondent to give further evidence concerning the rolled kerb work. Each party was responsible for preparing and presenting its own case, both evidence and submissions. The Tribunal was not, and should not be, obliged to require one party to lead particular evidence before it could reach a conclusion that was already open on the evidence, such as it was, before the Tribunal. The appellant did not have summonses issued to obtain evidence concerning the rolled kerb work or seek to have the oral hearing re-opened. It could have done so. The respondent and the Tribunal do not have to take responsibility for the fact that the appellant did not do so. 
For all of these reasons, the Tribunal's reasoning and the circumstances of the hearing and determination of the issues relating to when the respondent last attended on site to perform relevant work and the documents submitted by the appellant in July 2013 did not involve any departure from the standards of fairness and equity so that the decision as a whole was not fair and equitable. 
As to the submission that the decision was not fair and equitable because there was now available additional evidence referred to in [31] and [32] of the appellant's written submissions. The Appeal Panel is of the view that this should also be rejected. 
The further evidence is an email from Auburn Council to a representative of the appellant dated 11 February 2014 and evidence which an officer of Auburn Council could give of other works such as installation of stormwater grates and gulleys and widening of the entrance being carried out in Minimus Lane after 14 November 2005. 
This appears to be more relevant to the new evidence ground under cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 to the Act rather than the ground that the decision was not fair and equitable under cl 12(1)(a). Nonetheless, the Panel will deal with relevant aspects of this submission here rather than leave it to be dealt with entirely when considering the appellant's cl 12(1)(c) submissions. 
The email of 11 February 2014 from Auburn Council stated:
On the basis of this material the appellant submitted that "[t]hat bond had been returned to the builder on 16 March 2006 when the required work had been performed" - [31] of the appellant's written submissions. The relevance of that submission is apparently that it supports the conclusion that the builder/respondent attended the site to perform that work between 10 November 2005 and March 2006, although the appellant did not expressly make that connection in its submissions. The Appeal Panel cannot accept these submissions for a number of reasons. First, this email by itself does not provide a basis for concluding that the bond was returned to the builder/respondent, as opposed to the developer or owner of the strata development or some other person who may have lodged the bond. 
Secondly, the email does not establish that the bond was refunded because the work was done rather than because the condition was waived. An earlier statement in the appellant's written submissions should be noted in this regard. At [19], the appellant stated:
A waiver by the Council of the whole or part of the condition would suggest that the rolled kerb in its entirety was never completed and it raises considerable doubt as to whether the rolled kerb work was essential for practical completion. 
Thirdly, the email referred to a $30,000 bond "held as security for the footpath". It is far from clear that this is the same bond as might have been required in respect of the rolled kerb work (at least before the rolled kerb condition was waived in part). A footpath is not the same as a rolled kerb. 
Fourthly, the email does not provide support for the conclusion that such rolled kerb work as was done was carried out by the respondent, as opposed to some other contractor, on the site after 10 November 2005. 
This email is not inconsistent with the decision of reached by the Tribunal below and it does not provide a basis for concluding that the decision was not fair and equitable. 
As to the evidence that Mr Wojceik, an officer of Auburn Council, could give of other works such as installation of stormwater grates and gulleys and widening of the entrance being carried out in Minimus Lane after 10 or 14 November 2005, the appellant's case was that these works were part of the rolled kerb work - [32] of the appellant's written submissions. The appellant provided no basis upon which the Appeal Panel should conclude that these grates, gulleys and widening were part of the rolled kerb work, apart from assertion. The Appeal Panel is not in those circumstances prepared to accept that submission. Furthermore, in order to be of assistance to the appellant's case, it would have to be shown that not only was the work carried out by the respondent after 10 November 2005 but also that it was not work that could be characterised as "work to remedy any defect that does not affect practical completion" within the meaning of s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act. The appellant has not established that there is a basis upon which the latter of those 2 propositions could be accepted. 
In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel concludes that the email of 11 February 2014 from Auburn Council and the other potential evidence concerning grates, gulleys and widening do not provide a sufficient basis for concluding that the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable. Whether it amounts to significant new evidence for the purposes of cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 of the Act will be considered later. 
For all of these reasons the Appeal Panel concludes that the appellant has not established that the decision under appeal in so far as the rolled kerb work was concerned was not fair and equitable for the purposes of cl 12(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to the Act. 
The appellant's submissions concerning false, cute or misleading submissions have largely been dealt with above. It can be noted here that the appellant had the opportunity to make submissions on all relevant issues before the Tribunal at first instance and, if it had perceived that there were false or misleading submissions made by the respondent in its submissions in reply, it could have sought leave lead further evidence and to make further submissions addressing those matters. It did not do so. As a consequence and in all the circumstances, the Appeal Panel is of the view that the appellant has not established that the submissions made by the respondent were not open to be made on the material available and, in any event, the appellant had had the opportunity to make submissions on those matters. Accordingly, it should not be concluded that the decision was not fair or equitable on this basis. 
The appellant, however, made a further submission that the evidence given on behalf of the respondent was false, either deliberately or recklessly so. In [40] of its written submissions the appellant identified the false evidence as evidence given by Mr Raymond Draybi during the oral hearing that the builder/respondent "last attended site on 10 November 2005". At [44] of the written submissions, the appellant also submitted as follows concerning Mr Raymond Draybi's affidavit evidence, especially his affidavit of 7 February 2013:
Substantially similar submissions were put orally to the Panel. In particular, it was observed that in preparing his affidavit evidence, Mr Raymond Draybi had omitted to consider and refer to the invoices for painting done in relation to the strata development or to documentation concerning the rolled kerb work. On this basis his evidence was said to be founded on incomplete information and to be erroneous. 
The painting invoices were eventually exhibited to the affidavit of Mr Anthony Draybi of 5 April 2013 at [23] and the date of the last invoice was 5 November 2005 and could have been the subject of cross examination on 4 June 2013. 
The appellant did not discover that the rolled kerb work had not been done by 10 November 2005 until after the completion of the oral hearing on 4 June 2013. Nonetheless, this material was put before the Tribunal by the appellant without objection on the respondent's part and was the subject of submissions. Notwithstanding this, the appellant submitted on appeal that Mr Raymond Draybi's evidence, for example at [39] of his affidavit of 7 February 2005, was erroneous and false, even if not deliberately so. In this regard, the appellant's complaint was that the respondent did not, once the rolled kerb work had been raised as an issue, come forward, produce all documentation in relation to that work and explain how, when and by whom it was done. The appellant further complained that the Tribunal below did not recall the parties for an oral hearing to deal with that matter. The appellant conceded that it could have sought to have a further oral hearing and cross examine the respondent's witnesses in relation to the rolled kerb work but did not do so. 
Mr Raymond Draybi's oral evidence which was submitted by the appellant to have been false came about in the following way as described by the Tribunal in its reasons for decision at [22] and [23]:
Mr Draybi's affidavit evidence had apparently been prepared by his reviewing the documentation on the respondent's file relating to the building work on the strata development site and his forming the "honest belief and understanding" on the basis of the material relating to each trade, type of work, inspection report or certificate that certain works had been completed by certain times. Paragraphs 49 and 50 of Mr Draybi's affidavit of 7 February 2005 represented the culmination of such evidence and were as follows:
The appellant's submission that this oral and affidavit evidence as to when the builder/respondent last attended on site in order to carry out building work was false was based upon the proposition that there were "works that the builder must have performed after 15 November 2005 in order to be entitled to the refund of the $30,000 bond." - see [44] and [45] of the appellant's written submissions. 
A further significant element of the appellant's submissions on this topic was the proposition that because the respondent had sought to establish in evidence Mr Raymond Draybi's "honest belief and understanding" concerning when, among other things, the building work was completed based upon a review of the builder/respondent's documents, the respondent was required to produce and explain to the appellant and the Tribunal all documents relating to the rolled kerb work as well as documents relating to other trades. The appellant criticised the respondent for not coming forward and explaining the rolled kerb work but merely relying upon submissions to the effect that the rolled kerb work was not on the site and was thus not relevant residential building work and, further, that the work was minor and did not prevent the works as a whole from being reasonably capable of being used for their intended purpose. 
An allegation that a witness has given deliberately or recklessly false evidence is an extremely serious allegation. In considering whether such conduct had occurred the Appeal Panel took into account the nature of the proceedings before it and the nature of the subject matter of the proceedings and the gravity of the matters alleged. 
In the Appeal Panel's view, the appellant has not established that there were works that the builder must have performed after 15 November 2005 in order to have been entitled to the refund of the $30,000 bond. For the reasons already given in relation to the evidence relied upon by the appellant in this regard, we are not satisfied as to the following: (1) that the $30,000 bond referred to in the documents was in respect of the rolled kerb work and not other work such as a footpath;
Mr Draybi's evidence was consistent with the documentation and certification referred to in some detail in the Tribunal's reasons for decision. The information obtained after the oral hearing by the appellant from Auburn Council and one of its officers does not by itself establish that any relevant work, that is work other than remedying defects that did not affect practical completion, was done by the respondent after 10 November 2005. 
Furthermore, the respondent was entitled to conduct its case in the manner it saw fit. It chose not to put on further evidence concerning the rolled kerb work, choosing to address the additional documentary evidence adduced by the appellant by way of submissions. The appellant had the opportunity to have summonses issued to the builder/respondent and Auburn Council to obtain evidence and documents and to seek to have the oral hearing re-opened so that the issue of the rolled kerb work could be the subject of further oral evidence. It did not avail itself of these opportunities. The appellant has not established that the builder/respondent carried out after 10 November 2005 any relevant work, that is work other than remedying defects that did not affect practical completion. 
In the circumstances, the Appeal Panel does not accept that the evidence given by Mr Draybi should be found to have been deliberately or recklessly false. Moreover, the Panel is of the view that the material and arguments relied upon by the appellant in this regard do not establish that the Tribunal's decision below was not fair and equitable. 
The appellant drew attention to what it perceived to be an inherent disadvantage under which owners' corporations labour in disputes of this type. At [48] of its written submissions, it was stated:
Whilst the Appeal Panel recognises that there may be situations where one party to litigation has an inherent advantage over another party because of access to information, documents or experts, it is important that parties make use of the tools available to them to prepare and present their cases. Under s 40 of the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (NSW) (and now under s 48 of the Act), the appellant could have applied for a summons to be issued to the respondent, Auburn Council or any other person for the production of document or other things. In this way, all relevant documents and other material could have been obtained by the appellant prior to the hearing of the matter so that the appellant was properly informed and prepared. Under those same sections, a person can also be compelled to attend at a hearing and give oral evidence. If the appellant was unaware of the procedures available to it for obtaining documents and other evidence under provisions such as these, that was unfortunate but it does not mean that the decision of the Tribunal below was not fair or equitable for the purposes of cl 12(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to the Act. 
The third issue raised by the appellant in support of its contention that the decision below was not fair and equitable related to the Tribunal's failure to draw an adverse inference against the respondent's case because the respondent did not call Mr Michael Diab, the respondent's foreman for the building work on the strata development. 
It was not in dispute that Mr Diab was Mr Anthony Draybi's nephew by marriage, the respondent's foreman on site including in November 2005 during the time when Auburn Council was carrying out inspections and a person who would have had personal knowledge of when the respondent last attended on site to carry out building work other than work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion. He was not called by the respondent to give evidence. 
At [31] of the reasons for decision the Tribunal recorded the following concerning the oral evidence given by Mr Anthony Draybi:
This record suggests that the appellant may have sought in cross examination to lay the groundwork for a submission that an inference should be drawn that the evidence that Mr Diab would give would not have helped the respondent's case - see Jones v Dunkel [1959] HCA 8;  (1958) 101 CLR 298 at, for example, 321 (.8) per Windeyer J citing Wigmore, Evidence (3rd Ed 1940). The respondent apparently perceived that the appellant was seeking to make such a submission and took this matter up in its written submissions as recorded by the Tribunal below at [50] of the reasons for decision as follows:
The appellant had the opportunity to respond to that submission in its written submission filed after the respondent's submissions - see [51] of the reasons for decision. 
The Tribunal at first instance did not specifically refer to whether or not it drew any inference concerning the failure to call Mr Diab. 
The inference which may be drawn against a party which fails to call a witness under the rule in Jones v Dunkel is to some extent a matter of common sense and experience. Even though the Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence, the Tribunal may draw such an inference where the circumstances of the case render it appropriate. In the present case, as the passage from Windeyer J's judgment referred to above makes clear, the inference that might have been drawn was that Mr Diab's evidence would not have helped the respondent's case. It could not be inferred from the failure to call Mr Diab that the respondent attended the site after 10 November 2005 to do work other than work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion, in the absence of other evidence that supported such a conclusion. The absence of a witness cannot be used to make up any deficiency in the evidence - Jones v Dunkel [1959] HCA 8;  (1958) 101 CLR 298 at 312 (.6) per Menzies J. 
There was a considerable body of evidence before the Tribunal upon which it could rely to conclude that the respondent attended the site last on 10 November 2005 to do work other than work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion. This was referred to in detail by the Tribunal at [102] to [133] of the reasons for decision. There was little if any unequivocal evidence that the respondent attended the site after 10 November 2005 to do work other than remedying defects. The Tribunal weighed the evidence and considered the submissions made by the parties. The fact that there was no express reference to whether or not to draw any inference from the failure to call Mr Diab does not lead to the conclusion that the decision as a whole was not fair and equitable. 
The appellant's written submissions relevantly conclude at [55] with the statement that "That [the Tribunal being sensitive to family issues] would be understandable, but, with respect, it should not excuse the builder from explaining a for the failure to call crucial evidence from a vital witness." This suggests that the appellant was contending that because the respondent did not explain (to the appellant's satisfaction) why it did not call Mr Diab, the Appeal Panel should conclude that the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable or that some miscarriage of justice had occurred. If this is what the appellant was submitting that submission should be rejected. It was not incumbent upon the respondent to explain its failure to call evidence and a failure to do so would not render the Tribunal's decision not fair and equitable. If a party provides no explanation satisfactory to the Tribunal, it runs the risk of an adverse inference being drawn against its case. The absence of an explanation does not have the consequence that the decision is not fair and equitable. In any event, in the present case, the respondent did provide some explanation and relied upon authority as to why an adverse inference should not be drawn. The Tribunal referred to this explanatory evidence and to the respondent's submissions in its reasons. The material before the Tribunal provided ample support for its conclusions whether or not it was appropriate to rely upon inferences arising out of the failure to call a witness. 
In relation to this issue, the Appeal Panel can discern no basis in what occurred in relation to the failure to call Mr Diab or in the Tribunal's reasoning for concluding that the decision below was not fair and equitable. 
For all of these reasons the Appeal Panel concludes that the appellant has not established that the decision under appeal was not fair and equitable within cl 12(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to the Act. 
Even if the Panel were wrong in that conclusion, we are not satisfied that there was any substantial miscarriage of justice which the appellant may have suffered as a result of the matters raised under this ground which we have dealt with above. In Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17, the Appeal Panel held t [76] that "a substantial miscarriage of justice may have been suffered because of any of the circumstances referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) where there was a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved for the appellant had the relevant circumstance in para (a) or (b) not occurred or if the fresh evidence under para (c) had been before the Tribunal at first instance." The Appeal Panel does not accept that, if the relevant circumstances relied on by the appellant had not occurred, that is, if the rolled kerb work evidence had been properly considered, no unsupported or false submissions had been made and the Tribunal had properly drawn any available inference from the failure to call Mr Diab, there would have been a significant possibility or a fairly open chance that the appellant would have achieved a different and more favourable result. This follows from the fact that the material relied upon to establish that the respondent attended on the site after 10 November 2005 to carry out work under the building contract was weak and from the fact that there was no convincing basis for concluding that any work that was so done by the respondent was not work to remedy a defect that did not affect practical completion (within s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act). 
Accordingly, the appellant has not established that it may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision of the Tribunal below was not fair and equitable. Consequently, the Appeal Panel cannot grant leave to appeal against the decision of the Tribunal below on the basis of the ground referred to in cl 12(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to the Act. 
The appellant contended that the decision below was against the weight of the evidence within the meaning of clause 12(1)(b) of Schedule 4 to the Act. This was put very much as an alternative submission. Indeed, in its written submissions the appellant at [15] merely said:
The Appeal Panel is of the view that there is no basis for concluding that the Tribunal's decision was against the weight of the evidence before the Tribunal. There was more than ample support in the material before the Tribunal for its conclusions. In Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 the Appeal Panel held at [77(2)]:
The appellant did not seek to point to such a preponderance of evidence against the conclusion reached by the Tribunal below nor could the Appeal Panel discern such preponderance. 
It follows that the Appeal Panel cannot grant leave to appeal against the decision of the Tribunal below on the basis of the ground referred to in cl 12(1)(b) of Schedule 4 to the Act.
The appellant also relied upon the ground in cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 to the Act. Under cl 12(1)(c) the Appeal Panel may grant leave if it is satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because: 
In order to fall within this paragraph the appellant must be able to point to evidence which: (1) is significant; and
The new evidence upon which the appellant relies in this regard is not specifically identified in the written submissions but was referred to in oral submissions and was identified in the notice of appeal as follows:
Further information on the nature of the new evidence referred to in paragraph 2 was given in Mr Hadchiti's affidavit of 14 April 2014, especially in paragraphs 2 and 3 relating to Mr Hadchiti's conversation with Mr Wojceik (or Wojick, there was some confusion as to this gentleman's name) and paragraphs 4 and 5 which relate to certain correspondence obtained from Auburn Council and possibly elsewhere concerning the fire safety of the strata development. 
As to the 11 pages referred to in paragraph 1, the appellant only relied upon the first page which was an email from a Mr Tsaprounis from Auburn Council to another officer of the council Mr Stamatakos dated 24 November 2005. The body of the email is as follows:
The statement that the "builder has indicated that this work is to be undertaken" provides a basis for inferring that the builder intended to undertake or at least said it would undertake some rolled kerb work in Minimus or Mimulus Lane after a meeting with officers of Auburn Council. Without the support of some further unequivocal evidence that the builder (or someone on behalf of the builder) actually carried out that work, the statement in the email would not be a sufficient basis to conclude that the builder actually carried out that work. Further, the email does not establish when that conversation took place except that it must have been before 24 November 2005. Nor does the email establish that the rolled kerb work was required for practical completion of the works under the building contract in respect of the strata development and was not work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion (for the purposes of s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act). In the circumstances, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the evidence is significant in the sense that if it had been before the Tribunal at first instance there was a "significant possibility" that a different, more favourable result would have been achieved by the appellant - see Collins v Urban at [74] and [75]. 
Furthermore, although the appellant may not have been aware of the email until 2014, it does not follow from that fact that the evidence was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings below were being heard. As a party, the appellant was entitled to apply for a summons to be issued under s 40 of the CTTT Act to Auburn Council, to the builder/respondent and to any other relevant person to obtain documents relating to the completion of work on or near the site of the strata development. Given that the email was dated 24 November 2005 and was made available to the appellant in 2014, the Appeal Panel concludes that it would have been available to the appellant if it had been sought by summons issued out of the CTTT at any time prior to the hearing of the proceedings. Issuing a summons is not an unreasonable step to require a party to take to obtain documents that may be relevant to its proceedings in the Tribunal. Thus, it should be concluded that this evidence was reasonably available at the time of the hearing. 
Accordingly, the Auburn Council email of 24 November 2005 was not significant new evidence falling within cl 12(1)(c). 
The remaining 10 pages comprised a letter from a project planner, Mr Gosling, to A and A Developments Pty Ltd dated 18 March 2002 to a Mr Khattar, a sketch of the development headed "Colour Schedule" and some photographs in and around the subject site apparently taken before any work was undertaken. Mr Hadchiti's evidence was that these were all obtained from Auburn Council in 2014. The Appeal Panel is of the view that these 10 pages are not "significant" in the sense described above. No contrary submission was put on the appellant's behalf. Furthermore, they all appear to have been brought into existence well before the hearing of the matter and the Panel infers that they would have been produced by the Council in response to an appropriate summons if one had been issued prior to the hearing. For these reasons the Panel concludes that these remaining 10 pages were also not significant new evidence falling within cl 12(1)(c). 
As to the information from Auburn Council referred to in paragraph 2 of the appellant's response in its notice of appeal and the further details of the evidence provided in Mr Hadchiti's affidavit of 14 April 2014 paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, it is convenient to deal with the information from Mr Wojceik separately from the fire safety documents. 
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Mr Hadchiti's affidavit concerning Mr Wojceik were as follows:
The Appeal Panel accepts that this evidence may be significant if there were additional material to establish that the works referred to by Mr Wojceik were not work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion (for the purposes of s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act). The Appeal Panel was not taken to any material which suggested that this was the case. Nonetheless, the more substantial problem for the appellant is that this evidence was reasonably available at the time of the hearing. There was no reason why the appellant could not have obtained the documents from Auburn Council or the builder by summons and then contacted Mr Wojceik prior to the hearing, as it had been able to do in 2014. If Mr Wojceik felt unable to give evidence voluntarily, a summons could have been issued for him to attend and give evidence before the Tribunal during 2013. 
Whilst it is unfortunate that the appellant did not avail itself of the procedures available to obtain documents and other evidence, the Appeal Panel cannot conclude that any of this evidence falls within cl 12(1)(c). 
The evidence referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Mr Hadchiti's affidavit was: (1) A document dated 11 September 2007 from New South Wales Fire Brigades stamped as received by Auburn Council on 19 September 2007 headed "Complaint/Enquiry" in respect of the strata development together which the chain of emails (of February and March 2014) between Auburn Council and representatives of the appellant as a result of which the September 2007 document was provided to the appellant.
The September 2007 complaint/enquiry records that a certain Fire Safety Officer received a "Complaint/Enquiry: Sprinkler system not being monitored" in respect of the strata development and it was referred to Auburn Council "for its determination" as "Council are the regulatory authority". This document does not provide any basis for inferring that the respondent attended the site later than 10 November 2005 to carry out work other than work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion (for the purposes of s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act). No other relevance to the matters in issue in these proceedings is apparent. On this basis the Appeal Panel concludes that this evidence is not significant. Furthermore, given that it was obtained from Auburn Council by means of an application under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 (NSW) in 2014, the Appeal Panel infers that it could reasonably have been obtained by summons issued under s 40 of the CTTT Act prior to the hearing at first instance in 2013. Accordingly, it was not significant new evidence within the meaning of cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 to the Act. 
Similarly, the Civil Fire letter of 31 August 2006 does not provide any basis for inferring that the respondent attended the site later than 10 November 2005 to carry out work other than work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion (for the purposes of s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act). The letter does not appear to have any other relevance to the matters which were in issue in these proceedings. Thus, the Appeal Panel concludes that this evidence is not significant. Moreover, there was no evidence as to when or how the appellant obtained the letter. Thus, the appellant has not established that it was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with. Given its date and the fact that it has been obtained at some point of time by the appellant's representative, it is likely that it could have been obtained by summons or request prior to the hearing. The appellant has not established that it is significant new evidence that falls within cl 12(1)(c). 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that any of the material put forward by the appellant referred to above constitutes significant new evidence for the purposes cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 to the Act. Accordingly, the Appeal Panel cannot grant leave to appeal relying on cl 12(1)(c). 
Even if we are wrong in reaching that conclusion, the Panel is not satisfied that if that material had been put before the Tribunal at first instance,there would have been a significant possibility or a fairly open chance that the appellant would have achieved a different and more favourable result. This is largely because even if it were established that the builder did attend at the site after 10 November 2005 the material does not establish that it was to carry out work under the relevant building contract other than work to remedy any defect that did not affect practical completion (for the purposes of s 3B(3)(b) of the HB Act). Consequently, the appellant has not established that it may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because of the ground in cl 12(1)(c).
As the none of the grounds specified in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) has been made out by the appellant, the Appeal Panel cannot be satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because of one or more of those grounds. Furthermore, even if the circumstances had established one or more of the grounds referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c), the Panel was not satisfied that the appellants may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice as a result, for the reasons given above. 
Consequently, leave to appeal must be refused. 
The ground of appeal which the appellant had identified in its notice of appeal was as follows:
In dealing with this matter, the Appeal Panel was initially concerned that the terms in which the ground of appeal were expressed might be thought to suggest that the appellant was seeking to raise a question of law and that leave to appeal would not have been necessary at least in respect of such a question. After receiving the appellant's written submission and on a fuller understanding of the way in which the appellant put its case, the Appeal Panel was satisfied that the appellant was correct to seek leave to appeal. 
Even if the Appeal Panel were wrong in reaching that conclusion, the issues sought to be raised by the ground of appeal have been dealt with in substance in the reasons given above. In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel is of the view that even if the matter had been dealt with as an appeal and not as an application for leave to appeal the appeal should have been dismissed for the reasons already given. 
As the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a miscarriage of justice because of any of the grounds set out in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) of Schedule 4 to the Act, the application for leave to appeal must be dismissed. 
To the extent that the filing of the notice of appeal constituted an appeal in addition to an application for leave to appeal, any such appeal should also be dismissed. 
In relation to costs, both parties have submitted that the other party should pay their costs of this appeal. Given that the respondent has been successful in this application for leave to appeal, the Appeal Panel proposes to order that the appellant pay the respondent's costs of this application and to leave the order for costs made below undisturbed. Since there may be, however, a potential question as to the nature and exercise of the Appeal Panel's power to award costs in an appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, we propose to grant liberty to the parties, if they wish to do so, to apply within 14 days of the date of these orders to have the costs order reconsidered by the Presiding Member of the Panel. 
Consequently, the orders of the Appeal Panel are: (1) The application for leave to appeal is dismissed. (2)  (2) To the extent necessary, the appeal is dismissed.  (3)  (3) The appellant is to pay the respondent's costs of the application for leave to appeal.  (4)  (4) The parties have liberty, if they wish to do so, to apply within 14 days of the date of these orders to have the costs order reconsidered by the Presiding Member of the Panel. 
############# I'm default separator ##########29
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - residentialtenancies - whether s8(1)(f) of the RTA applies - whethertribunal hasjurisdiction to hear the matter - appeal upheld
This appeal is from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal made on 13 January 2014. A request for a written statement of reasons was made by the Appellant (which was the applicant landlord below) pursuant to section 62 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act). A written statement of reasons was published on 11 February 2014. Those reasons were accompanied by an order in the following terms:
The notice of appeal was filed on 28 February 2014 and the grounds of appeal were described as follows:
The grounds of appeal raise a question of law, namely whether the decision below contained an error of law in determining that the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to hear the dispute between the parties by reason of section 8(1)(f) of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) (the RTA). The appellant contends that on a correct construction of that section it should be determined that the Tribunal has jurisdiction to determine the dispute between the parties.
The proceedings below were commenced in 2013 in the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal and were decided this year in this Tribunal. Accordingly, the decision below constitutes an internally appealable decision and the rights of appeal are governed by section 80 of the Act - see NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Diab [2014] NSWCATAP 8.
The proceedings below 
The appellant's application below sought the following orders:
The application form requires the applicant to give the address of the rented premises (which was done) and to give reasons for requesting the orders sought. The reasons given were:
The reasons below contain the following findings of fact which are relevant to this appeal:
The decision below recorded that the applicant failed to produce either the contract for the sale of land or the residential tenancy agreement (paragraph 34). It is clear that the decision below relied upon the applicant's description of the transactions between the applicant and the respondent as recorded in the application form. 
The Tribunal has jurisdiction to make a variety of orders as set out in the RTA with respect to residential tenancy agreements. The RTA applies to residential tenancy agreements in respect of residential premises (see section 6 of the RTA). 
Section 13 of the RTA defines a residential tenancy agreement in these terms: 
Section 8(1) of the RTA provides that the RTA does not apply to the agreements described in subsections (a) to (j). Section 8(1)(f) refers to "an agreement for the sale of land that confers a right to occupy residential premises on a party to the agreement".
Attached to the notice of appeal was a copy of the Residential Tenancy Agreement. 
The respondent filed a reply to appeal in which the respondent submitted that the decision below was correct. The respondent also stated:
The appellant also relied upon an affidavit of Mathew Graham, a director of the appellant, which affidavit annexed a copy of the contract for sale of land dated 19 November 2012, and a copy of the Residential Tenancy Agreement.
In the affidavit, Mr Graham deposed that at the hearing below he intended to tender the Contract for Sale and the Residential Tenancy Agreement but that he did not get a chance before the Member raised the question of the Tribunal's jurisdiction and further that he was not equipped to deal with the jurisdiction issue. The affidavit also referred to a Call Option which the parties had entered into. That document does not appear relevant to this appeal.
The respondent did not object to the tender of the affidavit. From the appellant's submissions and the respondent's description of the transactions between the parties as described in the reply it is clear that the Contract for the Sale of Land and the Residential Tenancy annexed to the Affidavit were the documents referred to in the application upon which the applicant intended to rely at the hearing below.
The parties entered into the Contract for Sale of Land on 19 November 2012. Clause 41 of the contract provided:
Clause 30.2 of the Contract contained the following definition of the term "Tenancy Agreement".
The Contract was completed on 7 December 2012 and the parties entered into the Residential Tenancy Agreement dated the same date. Clause 1 of that agreement provides as follows:
The Residential Tenancy Agreement contained an annexure headed "Annexure A Part 3 Special Terms". Special Terms 1, 5 and 6 provide as follows:
It is clear that by the Contract for Sale the parties agreed that the appellant and respondent would, on settlement of the contract, enter into the residential tenancy agreement with the vendor becoming the tenant pursuant to the residential tenancy agreement. The tenancy agreement commenced on the date of settlement in accordance with Special Term 1. This is so notwithstanding the definition of tenancy agreement in Clause 30.2 of the Contract which appears to state the tenancy agreement is entered into contemporaneously with the Contract for Sale. In fact it was entered into contemporaneously with settlement of the Contract.
We agree with the submissions of the appellant that the Contract for Sale does not confer a right to occupy on completion. Special Condition 41 provides that the vendor does not have to provide vacant possession at completion subject to entering into the tenancy agreement. The conferral of the right to occupy from completion occurs in Clause 1 of the Residential Tenancy Agreement provided that the Residential Tenancy Agreement is entered into.
The respondent contends that the contract for sale of land confers a right to occupy the premises. In support of that proposition the respondent contends that he would not have entered into the contract for sale of land without the assurance that he would be allowed to remain in occupation by way of a residential tenancy agreement. 
In the opinion of the appeal panel the fact that the parties may not have entered into the contract for sale of land without the provision that completion would be subject to entry into a residential tenancy agreement does not lead to the conclusion that the source of the conferral of the right to occupy is in the contract for sale.
Prior to the introduction of the RTA the jurisdiction of the predecessor Tribunal (the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal) was regulated by the Residential Tenancies Act (NSW) 1987 (the 1987 Act). The 1987 Act contained s 6(1)(a) which provided as follows:
Section 6(1)(a) was considered by the Tribunal's predecessor, the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal in the case of Georgiardis v Hadjichristodoulou (Tenancy)  [2000] NSWCTTT 36 (4/4/2002). In that case the respondents agreed to sell the premises to the applicant. A contract for sale was entered into and settlement occurred on 13 November 1999. It was common ground that the purpose of the sale was to give the respondents a chance to continue to live at the premises. The Tribunal said that the arrangement allowing (or permitting) the respondents to occupy the premises after the sale was completed was a residential tenancy agreement for the purposes of the Act (ie the 1987 Act). With respect to s6(1)(a) of the 1987 Act the Tribunal said that there was no contract for sale or purchase of the premises since the arrangement was entered into and settlement of the applicants purchase had occurred. The Tribunal was satisfied that the agreement between the parties was not one to which s 6(1)(a) applied.
Section 6(1)(a) of the 1987 Act was also referred to in Parkroad Projects Pty Ltd v Luckey and Anor  [1999] NSWSC 214. In that case the first defendant had occupied and owned the premises. The plaintiff and the first defendant entered into a residential tenancy agreement and a mortgage (the plaintiff as landlord / mortgagor and the first defendant as tenant / mortgagee). The plaintiff and first defendant entered into a contract for sale of land. The first defendant was the vendor and the plaintiff the purchaser. Some years later an application came before the Tribunal which determined it had jurisdiction. It was accepted between the parties that the residential tenancy agreement came into effect as such upon completion of the sale of the premises to the plaintiff. The Court held that the preferred construction is that the Act (the 1987 Act) continues to apply in cases of a vendor selling and leasing back for a long term and that s 6(1)(a) applied during the performance of the sale agreement (paragraphs 38 and 39).
The provisions of s 6(1)(a) are expressed in language which is different from s 8(1)(f) and therefore decisions on s 6(1)(a) need to be treated with care.
It is the opinion of the Appeal Panel that s 8(1)(f) applies only where the Contract for Sale contains a provision which confers a right to occupy residential premises on a party to the agreement. It does not apply where a right to occupy is conferred by another agreement (such as the residential tenancy agreement in this case) or where the contract for sale purports to confer a right to occupy residential premises on a third party.
Therefore the Tribunal has jurisdiction to determine the application brought by the appellant against the respondent and, accordingly, the decision below contained an error of law in determining that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction on the basis that the contract for sale conferred the right to occupy.
The respondent submitted that the appellant should be held to the concession made by Mr Graham at the hearing that the Tribunal lacked jurisdiction and to the consequences of Mr Graham's failure to tender the Contract for Sale and the residential tenancy agreement. In the opinion of the appeal panel Mr Graham's concession concerning jurisdiction is not relevant to the question of whether the Tribunal in fact has jurisdiction. It is also the opinion of the appeal panel that his apparent failure to tender the Contract and residential tenancy agreement does not result in those documents being unavailable for consideration by the appeal panel. It would be inconsistent with the so called guiding principle set out in s36 of the Act (which requires the Tribunal to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings) to disallow the appellant from tendering the contract for sale and the residential tenancy agreement to the appeal panel. 
Accordingly the appeal panel will order that the appeal be upheld and that the proceedings be remitted to the Consumer and Commercial Division for rehearing.
############# I'm default separator ##########30
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -leave to appeal - whether substantial miscarriage of justice
This is an application for leave to appeal against orders made by the Tribunal in application RT 14/03197. In those proceedings the Tribunal made orders on 12 March 2014 terminating the tenancy, an order for possessions and an order in respect of unpaid rent totalling $4,800.00 (Original Orders).
The appellant is the tenant and the respondent is the landlord pursuant to a residential tenancy agreement.
The original application had been listed for hearing on 3 February 2014 but was adjourned on the request of the appellant due to the ill health of the appellant's partner. The matter was then listed on 26 February 2014. The appellant appeared and the matter was again adjourned with directions for the filing of evidence.
The matter was finally listed for hearing and determined on 12 March 2014 when the above orders were made. The appellant was present. At that hearing the Tribunal received documentary material, including a letter signed by the appellant dated 12 March 2014. In that letter the appellant said:
Following the Original Orders, the respondent landlord applied for a warrant for possession which the Tribunal issued on 17 March 2014. The warrant for possession was apparently executed on 21 March 2014. 
This present appeal was lodged on 18 March 2014 and included an application for a stay of the Original Orders. The appeal was lodged in time. The application for a stay was refused on 20 March 2014. In doing so the Appeal Panel noted the appellant was at the hearing when the original orders were made and that: (a) there was no suggestion by the appellant that outstanding rent had been paid; and
At the time the stay was refused the Appeal Panel also made directions for the parties to file evidence and submissions. Aside from requesting an extension of time to comply with those directions, which was granted, the appellant has not filed any submissions nor has the appellant addressed any of the deficiencies in his application for leave to appeal identified by the Appeal Panel in its reasons for refusing a stay. 
The orders challenged by the appellant in the Notice of Appeal (section 11A) were:
Grounds for appeal (sec 11b) were:
Orders sought (section 11b) were:
The respondent filed submissions opposing the application for leave to appeal. The respondent's submissions are in a letter dated 5 April 2014. Those submissions include: (a) That rent has not been paid since 13 February 2014;
An application for leave to appeal can be dealt with on the papers without the need for a formal hearing: see section 50(1)(a) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW). The appellant did not object to this course of action being taken: see Notice of Appeal item 16B. The application for leave to appeal was lodged in time.
The Appeal Panel is satisfied that the application should be dealt with on the papers as there is no issues raised that require an oral hearing and such a hearing would increase the cost to the parties and delay a final resolution.
The appellant seeks leave to appeal. The Appeal Panel is satisfied leave is required in the present case. Leave requires the appellant to satisfy the requirements of Schedule 4 clause 12 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act, 2014 and demonstrate he may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice. 
The reason given by the appellant as to why the decision was not fair and equitable is:
As to why the decision was against the weight of evidence the appellant says he gave evidence at the hearing and contends he "should have been given at (least) sixty days notice".
In relation to evidence that is now available but was not reasonably available at the hearing the appellant says "under investigation at the moment".
As indicated above, and despite the Appeal Panel's directions, the appellant did not develop these contentions or file any additional evidence or submissions.
The Tribunal at first instance made a finding that the tenant had frequently failed to pay rent: see Original Orders - Order 2. This finding has not been challenged. Further, it is clear that when the application for termination was originally filed rent had been outstanding and unpaid for some time.
The grant of leave to appeal is discretionary. There is a requirement that the appellant demonstrate he may have suffered a substantial miscarriage because of one of the circumstances set out in Clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW).
There is a fundamental obligation of a tenant to pay rent when due under the residential tenancy agreement. 
The Appeal panel is satisfied from the submissions made and the evidence before the Appeal Panel that: (1) the tenant breached his obligation to pay rent and that rent has been unpaid for some time and remains unpaid; and
Further, having regard to: (a) the fact rent has still not been paid and the unchallenged finding the failure to pay rent has been frequent; 
The application for leave to appeal is refused.
The appeal is dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########31
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -procedure - Guardianship Division hearing - procedural fairnessand naturaljustice - recent receipt of a report negative to the present guardian - reliedupon in the reasons for decision not tocontinue him as guardian - whetherguardian had adequate opportunity to respond - raised his concern at hearing -failure to explainto him his right to apply for an adjournment and haveapplication considered - not satisfied that the outcome of the hearing wouldhave been unaffected - appeal allowed, Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act2013, ss 36(1), 36(4), 38(2), 38(5) considered.
Mr CKH is Vietnamese and came to Australia with his family in 1987 at the age of 25. CKH has cerebal palsy and also has been diagnosed as having a mild intellectual disability and mental illness. For many years his parents provided him with personal care and accommodation.
In 1995 CKH became, for the first time, the subject of a guardianship order. The Guardianship Tribunal made a limited guardianship order appointing the Public Guardian to manage certain of his care decisions. Following review in 2000, the Tribunal decided no further order was necessary and the order was permitted to lapse. As a result CKH resumed managing his care needs directly, with the support and assistance of his parents and immediate family.
CKH's brother, and appellant in this appeal, CKG applied to the Guardianship Tribunal early in 2006 seeking the appointment of a guardian. A new guardianship order was made in February 2006. There were three-year reviews in 2007, 2010 and 2013, and CKG's appointment was continued.
In the 2013 decision the Tribunal directed that the order be reviewed in 12 months' time rather than in three years' time. In setting the shorter review period, the Tribunal was influenced by an expert report from CKH's treating behavioural psychologist, Mr McIntyre. The Tribunal endorsed his recommendation that the Behaviour Intervention and Support Plan (BISP) last completed in 2009 be updated. The Tribunal noted in that regard the need to examine two restrictive practices to which CKH was subject (restricted access to cigarettes and only being allowed to access the wider community accompanied).
The review took place in February 2014. In its decision dated 24 February 2014, the Guardianship Division of this Tribunal (the successor to the Guardianship Tribunal) decided not to renew CKH's apppointment as guardian and appointed instead the Public Guardian.
CKG now appeals under s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act). The appeal has been heard by a three member panel constituted in accordance with the Act (sch 6, cl 13). The scope of the appeal is regulated by s 80(2)(b). An appellant may appeal 'on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other grounds'.
The respondents to CKG's appeal are the Public Guardian and the subject person (CKH). Following a directions hearing on 22 May 2014, Ms Betty Weule was appointed as special guardian for the purpose of the legal proceedings (guardian ad litem) for CKH. She was present at the appeal hearing. Ms Simeonides of the Legal Aid Commission appeared as legal representative for CKH and Ms Weule. The Public Guardian did not attend, and entered a submitting appearance. A number of members of CKH's family attended the hearing, along with a staff member from his present care facility, House With No Steps, Minto (HWNS).
The Tribunal concluded that CKG was no longer adequately able to perform the role of guardian for his brother. There being no other private person identified by the Tribunal as willing and able to perform the role of guardian for CKH, the Tribunal appointed the Public Guardian.
In its reasons the Tribunal noted that CKH had lived at his present group home, HWNS, since August 2011. The reasons for decision referred to various criticisms CKG had of the adequacy of the care provided there, and his view that CKH would better placed somewhere else (though no alternative option was presented). The reasons referred to his concern over the need to restrict CKH in relation to the use of cigarettes. The reasons referred to his view that CKH would be benefit from practices that were more culturally sensitive, including in relation to meal types. The Division referred in considerable detail to the information given to it by three members of staff of the HWNS, by way of a written report filed prior to the hearing and orally at the hearing. The Tribunal, in deciding not to continue CKG as guardian, gave weight to several matters raised in the report in criticism of CKG. They included, for example, concerns as to his conduct in the care facility, for example, that he had been 'abusive and rude' to staff; and that when he visited he gave CKG cigarettes on request, disregarding the restrictive practice that was in place. The reasons also referred to reported attempts by CKG to have CKH taken off all medications, a step not approved by his medical staff, some of whom (e.g. Dr Nguyen) have been attending to his needs for many years. We will not repeat all the concerns here.
In conclusion the Tribunal said: 'In recommending that the Public Guardian be appointed Ms Lui and Ms Mojesko [senior staff, HWNS] acknowledged the strong bond between CKH and his brother. However, the issues they had raised in relation to alleged misrepresentation of medical advice, lack of sharing of information to enable proper care to be provided, and, the breakdown in communication and ability to liaise with [CKG] about [CKH's] care, had reportedly limited HWNS ability to provide support in all areas of his life.  During the hearing [CKG] was given the opportunity to respond to the concerns raised by HWNS in relation to their recommendation that the Public Guardian be appointed as [CKH's] guardian. In contrast to earlier evidence, [CKG] said that communication with staff at HWNS was no problem for him at all. He said his main problem was with management and the frequent changes of staff supporting his brother. Mr CKG reiterated his general dissatisfaction with the use of casual inexperienced staff and the inconsistency in staff supporting [CKG] and attending appointments with him. Late in the hearing Mr CKG stated that he had only received the report from Ms Lui and Ms Mozejko from HWNS on the Wednesday prior ot the Monday hearing date. He said he had not had sufficient time to prepare a response to the information contained therein, particularly in regard to the issue of who should be appointed as guardian. He claimed the information from HWNS was not true. Mr CKG did not request the Tribunal to adjourn the matter.  The Tribunal takes the view that in order for a person to be appointed as a private guardian to be 'able' to exercise the functions of the order they must be able reliably and effectively to consult and communicate with all relevant stakeholders in a reasonable and common-sense manner in order to make and give effect to decision in the best interests of the subject person. The Tribunal was not satisfied that [CKG] is able to adequately fulfil this requirement in the role of guardian at present, notwithstanding his apparent genuine concern for the welfare of his brother. It was evident that [CKG] has come into conflict with and lacks confidence in [CKH's] accommodation service. The attitude of [CKG] that the service is negligent and lacking in their duty of care raised doubt about his willingness and ability to engage in proper and reasonable weighting of their opinions as it relates to their contribution to his brother's care presently. The Tribunal was persuaded that this attitude had resulted in uncertainty and (reciprocal) distrust, and, had impeded optimal service provision to [CKH].  The Tribunal is not satisfied that Mr CKG meets the requirements to be appointed as guardian for [CKH]. No other private person was proposed. The Tribunal therefore, determined that the Public Guardian should now be appointed.'
In his notice of appeal CKG raised a number of points all of which may be gathered together as a claim that he was denied procedural fairness in the way the Tribunal conducted its proceedings: for instance, 'insufficient preparation time prior to hearing', 'insufficient time within the hearing session', 'not informed of entitlement to adjourn hearing', 'not notified that a private guardian option was available'. He also raised as an issue the 'misleading and false allegations made against me'. He asserted that these allegations formed the basis of the Tribunal's decision to replace him as guardian. In regard to the option of a private guardian, he referred to the possibility that his son, Phillip, might be suitable. In his submissions he raised numerous matters going to the merits of he being reinstated as guardian, and requested that the Appeal Panel make an order to that effect.
In his oral submissions at hearing CKG referred to these points, and gave reasons why he should be reinstated. The special guardian for the proceedings (the guardian ad litem), Ms Weule, made no submissions on that issue. She had met with CKH at the care facility and expressed her satisfaction with the standard of care being provided at HWNS. Ms Simeonides, legal representative, made submissions in relation to the relevant law. There was no active contradictor to CKG's appeal.
The guardianship jurisdiction of the Tribunal is protective in nature. Any decision that is made must ultimately be guided by what is in the best interests of the subject person, here CKH.
Nonetheless, the Tribunal is bound to accord procedural fairness ( or 'natural justice') to parties to its proceedings, and, in addition to persons whose interests, rights or legitimate expectations are affected: see, generally, Hess v Public Guardian [2005] NSWADTAP 43 at  [20] ff. The duty derives from the common law, and is reinforced by s 38(2) and (5) of the NCAT Act, as follows: (2) The Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence and may inquire into and inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks fit, subject to the rules of natural justice. (5) The Tribunal is to take such measures as are reasonably practicable: (a) to ensure that the parties to the proceedings before it understand the nature of the proceedings, and (b) if requested to do so-to explain to the parties any aspect of the procedure of the Tribunal, or any decision or ruling made by the Tribunal, that relates to the proceedings, and (c) to ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings.
CKG's principal concern was that he was not given an adequate opportunity to respond to the negative material contained in the HWNS staff report to the Tribunal, sent by the manager, Ms Anneliese Mojesko. He received it late Wednesday for a Monday morning hearing. He said that he had little time available over the intervening four days to organise his response to the several matters raised, as he was working each of those days as a driver of accessible taxis.
Further, similarly to the situation in Hess, CKG is a person of non-English speaking background, in his case Vietnamese. His oral submissions to us and his written submissions suggest a good facility with English. It is, nevertheless, his second language. There was a Vietnamese interpreter present both before the Tribunal below and the Appeal Panel. We note that CKG occasionally called on the interpreter for assistance.
The Division Registry prepared for us a transcript of relevant passages from the recording of the proceedings. It follows: Actual recording start time: 11:32:20 am Actual break time: 1:01:51 pm - 1:13:23 pm Actual recording end time: 1:17:32 pm 12:48:30 CKG: I got this letter from Dr Ivy Vu TRIBUNAL: I can't, uhm...what does it say? Can you tell me... CKG: You know, because I received the report of Annieliese in which, you know, she mentioned about of on the issue, you know, the abuse, you know, which happened...so I received her report too late and I haven't got time, you know, to bring all the document as you know, to the Tribunal...and I just received it on Friday, you know, last Friday, that means a few days ago, that's in relation to the complaint from Annieliese about, you know, about the abuse, you know, to the doctor...and what she said, she said here I abused the doctor, I abuse the medical centre staff, is not true..and so many other things in here are not true. TRIBUNAL: Okay 12:59:07 [CKG : Excuse me...you know I could have submitted more information, but because, I did not expect, I was very surprised, you know, when last Wendesday, I received a report in which there was an attachment from Annieliese, to make a submission?? that a paper, need to be appointed...so I had not time to prepare TRIBUNAL: So you received that last Wednesday? CKG: Yeah, I received it last Wednesday. So I still got some more information I'd like to show you but because I have got time to send it, you know, to the Tribunal. So and maybe, you know, many issue, you know, raised in Annieliese' report, many of them are untrue. And I haven't got, you know, here because we haven't got much time for me, you know, to prove, you know, to bring every, you know, every, evidence, against every, you know, each issue in the report.
While CKG did have have an opportunity to respond orally at hearing, in our view it was not unreasonable of him to raise as he did his concern about the shortness of the notice of the criticisms of his conduct.
In our opinion, he could not reasonably have anticipated ahead of receiving the HWNS material or from the course of the previous reviews, in particular the 2013 review, that his appointment was in jeopardy. The 2013 review had raised an important concern - the need for a up to date BISP and the need for particular attention to the restrictive conditions, but it went no further.
Clearly the allegations made against him were grave ones. If well founded, they would very likely have led any Tribunal to consider terminating his appointment. In giving the emphasis it did to the account given by the care givers at HWNS in its written reasons, the Tribunal in effect adopted the HWNS criticisms as its own.
The case has similarities to Hess, cited above. In that instance a person with an interest in application to place a person under guardianship had been the subject of adverse evidence. He appealed. He was of Hungarian background. He had been confronted in the course of the hearing with an adverse report, suggesting he had a manipulative relationship to the subject person, a woman to whom he had been close over many years. At the hearing he was given an opportunity to respond. There was a Hungarian intepreter present who assisted him. There was a second adverse report about him from another person. The Tribunal relied on both reports in reaching its decision to appoint a guardian. At the appeal hearing, he gave evidence. The Appeal Panel accepted his evidence that he had not been told about its existence, let alone been allowed to see it.
In upholding his appeal, and finding that he had been denied procedural fairness, the Appeal Panel said: 19 It was apparent to the Appeal Panel during Mr Hess' evidence that he was a person who would be unable to protect his interests in the hearing of a legal proceeding by reason of his inability to speak and read English, his inability to understand the proceedings and his inability to assert himself. In particular, he would not have realised that he could have applied for an adjournment of proceedings to consider the expert reports or to obtain advice about his options having regard to those reports. Nor did he appreciate that he could present his own evidence concerning the application for guardianship and financial management orders.
The Tribunal has an obligation under s 38(5)(a) of the NCAT Act to ensure that the parties to the proceedings before it understand the nature of the proceedings. If a party complains of late receipt of material of significance they should be invited to explain why they regard themselves as prejudiced in responding to it in the course of the hearing now on foot. They should be asked why they need further time. They should have explained to them their right to apply for an adjournment or some other direction that might alleviate the prejudice they perceive. It does not follow that the Tribunal must accede to such an application, but the person affected should be given the opportunity in circumstances of the present kind to present their case for an adjournment.
In Hess, the Appeal Panel cited with approval observations by Nettle J in the Victorian Supreme Court (Collection House Ltd v Taylor [2004] VSC 49 at  [27]) and Mahoney JA in the NSW Court of Appeal (Rajski v Scitec Corporation (19 June 1986, unreported)) on the special care that must be shown in relation to persons who are unrepresented. While the tribunal must not enter into the arena by giving specific legal advice to a party, it must ensure that the nature and effect of its processes are understood. Mahoney JA said in Rajski that a court (and similarly, we interpose, a tribunal) 'will, I think, be careful to examine what is put to it by a party in person to ensure that he has not, because of lack of legal skill, failed to claim rights or to put forward arguments which otherwise he might have done.'
Though the matter was not addressed at the appeal hearing, we have briefly considered whether the surrounding provisions of the NCAT Act displace or qualify the obligation of procedural fairness. The 'guiding principle' for the Act and for the procedural rules requires their provisions be applied so as 'to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings' (s 36(1)). This principle does not gainsay in any way the right to be accorded procedural fairness.
There is also a principle of 'proportionality' (s 36(4)): (4) In addition, the practice and procedure of the Tribunal should be implemented so as to facilitate the resolution of the issues between the parties in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject-matter of the proceedings.
Nor does this provision gainsay in any way the right to be accorded procedural fairness. It goes only to the way in which procedural fairness is to be achieved in the circumstances of the case.
An appeal will not be allowed if the breach of procedural fairness would have made no difference to the outcome of the case: see Stead v State Government Insurance Commission [1986] HCA 54;  161 CLR 141. For a recent account of the case-law relevant to this principle, see Warkworth Mining Limited v BulgaMilbrodale Progress Association Inc [2014] NSWCA 105 at  [40-44].
We consider that it was not fair of the Tribunal to fail to canvass the issue of adjournment with him when he raised the issue of recent receipt of the written reports from HWNS that were so critical of his conduct. The Tribunal needed to identify to him the procedural step (application for adjournment) hat was open to him to take to have his objection properly considered and be the subject of a ruling. It was not fair, as occurred in the written reasons, to foreclose that possibility by criticising him for not having the perspicacity to formulate his concern in the procedural language of a legal proceeding, and press it.
Had that liberty been extended to him, CKG's concerns, as described in the notice of appeal, over 'insufficient preparation time prior to hearing', 'insufficient time within the hearing session' and the need for further time to respond to the 'misleading and false allegations made against me' might have been able to be addressed.
In our view he had tenable basis for making an application (he was not being vexatious), and had the application been granted he might have been able, more effectively, to counter the criticisms. We cannot be satisfied that affording him the procedural opportunity of making such an application would have made no difference to the outcome of the case. Had such an application been granted and he had more time to respond (say seven days) it may have turned out that the criticisms were wrong, overstated or going to matters where the differences between the guardian and the care facility belonged to the reasonable area of discourse between a committed guardian and a care facility.
As previously noted, CKG, responding to the reference in the reasons to the usual rule that a private guardian is preferable, raised in his notice of appeal his concern that he was 'not notified that a private guardian option was available'. We have not reviewed the whole of the recording of the hearing or any preliminary communications to ascertain whether he was informed of this point. As a guardian of long standing who had been to several hearings of the Tribunal, we doubt that he would have been unaware of this point.
Nonetheless, we need not rule on this aspect of this aspect of the appeal, as the issue can be taken up in the course of action we propose later in these reasons. (We would simply note (as the presiding member did at the directions hearing) that were the Tribunal to decide on reconsideration that CKG is not a suitable private guardian, it may be difficult to satisfy it that CKG's son, Phillip, is a suitable alternative private guardian. While he may have, as CKG has submitted, professional qualifications that suit him to such a role, there would possibly be concern that he might be influenced by his father in exercising his discretions.)
The Appeal Panel has broad and flexible powers of disposal (see s 81, NCAT Act). They include remittal, or the exercise of the powers available to the Tribunal at first instance. We do not see this as a case where it is preferable for the Appeal Panel to give leave to extend the appeal to the merits. It is better, in our view, that the matter be returned to the Guardianship Division for futher consideration. In this instance we have decided to exercise the Tribunal's power to order a review on its own motion (Guardianship Act 1987, s 25).
In the ordinary courts the usual consequence of a finding of procedural unfairness is that the affected proceedings are treated as a nullity and orders set aside. If applied to this case, that would mean that the order made 24 February 2014 would have to be set aside. In our view and in accordance with usual practice in the past in this appeals jurisdiction (see, e.g. ADK v NSW Trustee and Guardian [2011] NSWADTAP 60) it is preferable in the interests of stability for the time that the present guardianship order be left in place pending completion of the review.
In its review, the Tribunal should include in its consideration all the material CKG placed before the Appeal Panel in support of the merits aspect of his appeal, as well as any further material that the care facility and the special guardian (Ms Weule) may wish to place before it.
############# I'm default separator ##########32
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -application for leave to extend the appeal to a review ofthe merits -apprehension of bias
The appellant, AMH, has appealed a decision of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (the Tribunal), in its General Division. In that decision, dated 5 December 2013, the Tribunal affirmed the decision of the respondent, Western New South Wales Local Health District, to refuse the applicant access to some of the information for which she had sought access, under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009
The appellant is an employee of the respondent and the information for which she sought access was as follows:
In accordance with the GIPA Act, the respondent identified the relevant documents it held, containing the information sought by the appellant. This included the investigation report and transcripts of interviews with employees in the course of the investigation of the complaint made against the appellant. In his decision, at [6], the Judicial Member explained that the decision the subject of review, was the respondent's decision to refuse the appellant access to:
We note that the appellant's application came before the Tribunal at a planning meeting on 18 September 2012, 31 October 2012 and 2 April 2013. On 2 April 2013, the Judicial Member made orders for the parties to file and serve evidence and written submissions. The Judicial member also made an order that following the filing and serving of this material, the application was to be referred to him for a decision on the papers: see s 76 of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997
The Tribunal's decision was published 5 December 2013. In that decision, with the exception of the information in Document 31, the Tribunal affirmed the abovementioned decisions of the respondent to refuse the appellant access to the information sought. The exception is not the subject of this appeal so we have not considered it further. 
In her Notice of Appeal, the appellant said she was appealing 'on the merits of the decision'. She did not specify any questions of law arising from the Tribunal's decision, but in identifying why she was asking the Tribunal to extend her appeal to the merit, she said: 'I feel the merits of the decision have been biased.' 
The appellant's Notice of Appeal was filed in the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales (NCAT), on 8 January 2014. The appeal is an appeal from a decision of the ADT, dated 5 December 2013.
NCAT was established, on 1 January 2014, pursuant to s 3 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act). On the establishment of NCAT, the ADT was abolished: see cl 3 of Schedule 1 of NCAT Act.
By operation of cl 10(1) of Schedule 1 of the NCAT Act (existing unexercised appeal right), this appeal is taken to have been duly commenced in NCAT and may be heard and determined by NCAT. For this purpose and under cl 10(3), NCAT has and may exercise all the functions which the ADT previously had and the applicable legislation is that which would have applied if the NCAT Act had not been enacted.
As a consequence, the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997(ADT Act), as in force at 31 December 2013 applies to this appeal. In particular, the provisions of Part 1, of Ch 7, of the ADT Act, which deals with internal appeals to the Appeal Panel of the ADT, applies to this appeal even though it is being heard by the Appeal Panel of NCAT. 
This appeal came before, Judge O'Connor, Deputy President Appeals, on 7 February 2014. His Honour made orders that the appellant file and serve written submissions 'as to why the Appeal Panel should exercise its discretion to extend the appeal to the merits under s 113(2)(b) of the [ADT Act]'. Orders were also made for the respondent to file and serve written submissions in reply. His Honour is also recorded as having noted that if the appeal was out of time, leave was granted for the appeal to continue. 
The appeal was heard on 14 April 20014. The applicant appeared in person, by telephone. Mr P Ginters, of counsel, appeared on behalf of the respondent.
In accordance with the directions of Judge O'Connor, on 7 March 2014, the appellant filed and served written submissions. In those submissions, the appellant said that she appealed 'under a question of law in that the Judicial Member's findings may indicate an appearance of bias and possibly improper purpose.' She contended that 'an appearance of bias' is evidenced at [59], [60] and [61] of the Tribunal's. The appellant went on to assert that the alleged 'appearance of bias' and an allegation of improper purpose warranted an appeal on merits.
On 27 March 2014, the respondent filed detailed written submissions in reply. These submissions contended that the appellant's assertions of bias and improper purpose were not made out so as to warrant the intervention of the Appeal Panel. The respondent also noted that the matter was listed for hearing on the issue of leave to appeal on the merits and not a hearing, as of right, on a question of law. 
There is no dispute that the decision of the Tribunal is an 'appealable decision' under s 112 of the ADT Act. A person's rights of appeal, in regard to an 'appealable decision', is set out in s 113 the ADT Act, which relevantly provides:
The Court of Appeal, in Lloyd v Veterinary Surgeons Investigating Committee  (2005) 65 NSWLR 245;  [2005] NSWCA 456, at [14] and [60] to [63], held that para 113(2)(a) and (b) provided distinct sources of appeal to the Appeal Panel and were not cumulative. That is., a person could make an application for leave to appeal on the merits, without first establishing a question of law. 
As noted above, in her Notice of Appeal the appellant expressly stated that her appeal was a merits appeal. She did not state that she was appealing on a question of law. However, in her Notice of Appeal she did make reference to the decision having been biased. 
In its submissions, the respondent noted that 'an allegation of apprehended bias, if made out, can be characterised as constituting a lack of procedural fairness, and accordingly raise a question of law.' The respondent went on to contend that the appellant's Notice of Appeal did not raise any question of law. In his oral submissions, Mr Ginters reiterated that the matter was only listed for a hearing as to whether leave should be granted to allow the appellant to appeal on the merits of the Tribunal's decision. Leave was sought on the grounds of bias and it was for the appellant to persuade the Appeal Panel that this ground was made out and if so persuaded, the Appeal Panel should exercise its discretion to grant leave under paragraph 113(2)(b) of the ADT Act to extend the appeal to the merits. 
We proceeded to hear the appellant's application accordingly, but note that in a practical sense it would not have made any difference had we proceeded to hear the appellant's appeal as of right, under para 113(2)(a), and/or an application for leave to appeal on the merits, under para 113(2)(b). Our findings would have be the same, as the only ground relied on by the appellant for the leave application was that of bias, which arguably raises a question of law as noted by the respondent: see VU v NSW Trustee and Guardian  [2011] NSWADTAP 45 and Nicholls v Director General, Department of Education and Training  [2010] NSWADTAP 35. 
At [34] of the Tribunal's decision, the Judicial Member set out the Tribunal's task in determining the appellant's application for review. Put simply, that task was to determine whether the respondent had established (s 105 of the GIPA Act places the onus on the respondent) the following:
In regard to the public interest considerations against disclosure, the Judicial Member, at [39] to [41], noted that common to all the public interest considerations against disclosure in the table to subs 14(2), is that a disclosure of the information in issue 'could reasonably be expected' to have the nominated effect as set out in the table. The Judicial Member also cited the well accepted meaning of 'could reasonably be expected' in the context of the GIPA Act and other legislation proving for access to government information. 
The Judicial Member found, at [83], that the respondent had established that public interest considerations against disclosure of the information in issue, on balance, outweighed the public interest considerations in favour of disclosure. That is, the Judicial Member found that the respondent had established that there was an overriding public interest against disclosure, in accordance with the public interest test in s 13 of the GIPA Act. 
In regard to the public interest considerations against disclosure of the information in issue, the respondent relied on a number of those prescribed in the table to subs 14(2) of the GIPA Act: see at [37] to [68] of the Tribunal's decision. For the purpose of this appeal the relevant public interest consideration against disclosure is that prescribed in cl 3(f) of the table, which provides:
The Judicial Member dealt with this public interest consideration against disclosure, at [57] to [62], in the Tribunal's Decision. At [57], the Judicial Member cited, in part, the decision in AEZ v Commissioner of Police NSW Police Force  [2013] NSWADT 90. This decision being a previous decision of the Tribunal in regard to the construction and application of this particular public interest consideration against disclosure. We note that no issue has been taken in regard to this paragraph.
The Tribunal went on to say the following, at [58] to [61], of its decision:
At [79] to [80], of the Tribunal's Decision, the Judicial Member set out his findings as to the weight he gave to the public interest considerations against disclosure, as established by the respondent, in regard to the information in issue. These findings are described as follows: 
The appellant contends that the Judicial Member made a 'leap from his inadvertent name mentioning', at [59] of the decision, 'to the contents of the Information in Issue, of which serious bullying and harassment' was claimed by the respondent. The appellant went on to say that:
The appellant went on to assert that the Judicial Member's inadvertent name mentioning was unhelpful and:
While we understand that the appellant is dissatisfied with the decision of the Tribunal, for the reasons set out below, we are not persuaded by her arguments that the Tribunal's reasons for decision evidence 'bias' by the Judicial Member in making the findings he made.
As noted by the respondent, it is well established that 'bias' is a breach of the obligation to accord procedural fairness, sometimes called the 'rules of natural justice'. In this regard, subs. 73(2) of the ADT Act provides that while the Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence it is 'subject to the rules of natural justice'.
There are two aspects to bias, actual bias and apprehended bias. As actual bias by the Judicial Member has not been raised by the appellant we have not considered this any further. However, for completeness, we find that there is no evidence on which such an argument could be made. 
The apprehension of bias principle and its application were discussed by the High Court in Ebener v Official Trustee in Bankruptcy  [2000] HCA 63;  (2000) 205 CLR 337, at [3] to [8], per Gleeson CJ, McHugh, Gummow and Hayne JJ, as follows:
In a more recent case, Michael Wilson & Partners Ltd v Nicholls  [2011] HCA 48, the High Court (per Gummow ACJ, Hayne, Crennan and Bell JJ) said the following:
In our view, when objectively assessed, the Judicial Member made his findings as to whether the disclosure of the information in issue could reasonably be expected to expose persons to a risk of serious harassment or intimidation, on the basis of all the material before him, including the affidavit evidence of the respondent's solicitor, Ms Anderson, and that of the appellant. 
We note that the affidavit of Ms Anderson was filed and served subsequent to the 31 October 2012 planning meeting (i.e. on or about 7 December 2012) and the appellant filed and served her affidavit almost two months after that (i.e. on 28 February 2013). We also note that in December 2012, the respondent provided to the Tribunal, in confidence (see s 107 of the GIPA Act), statements made by some of the employees who had been interviewed during the course of the investigation (see at [29] of the Tribunal's Decision, where the Judicial Member sets out the information before him). These statements were made for the purpose of the appellant's GIPA application and the appellant was given a redacted copy of these statements. The redactions were the names of the employees who made the statement and any information that may identify that person. However, the copy of the statement released to the appellant included the person's reasons for objecting to the disclosure of the information that the person had given to the investigator. We note these reasons included concerns about being bullied or intimidated by the appellant if the information they provided to the investigator were to be released to the appellant. 
In our view, the remarks of the Judicial Member, at [60], about concerns expressed by the employees is a reference to the concerns as expressed in these employee statements prepared for the purpose of the GIPA Act and not a reference to what was asserted against the appellant in the course of the investigation. 
In her affidavit, the appellant addressed these concerns, as well as those raised by Ms Anderson in her affidavit. 
Accordingly, we do not accept the appellant's contention that the Judicial Member took as fact the statements contained in the information at issue. 
Nor do we accept that the Judicial Member's disclosure of the name of one of the employees, who was interviewed by the investigator, evidences a lack of impartiality by the Judicial Member in determining the appellant's application for review. While disclosure of this nature should be avoided (see s 107 of the GIPA Act), in this instance, the disclosure was clearly inadvertent. It was made at a planning meeting where the only persons in attendance were the appellant and the solicitor for the respondent and no information, other than the name of the particular employee was disclosed. At no time following the disclosure, did the appellant ask the Judicial Member to recuse himself. On the contrary, she complied with the orders that were made on this day and those that were made at the subsequent planning meeting in April 2013.
Accordingly, in accordance with the two step test as described in Ebener (supra), at [8], we do not accept the appellant's contention that the Judicial Member's inadvertent disclosure was such that a fair-minded lay observer might reasonably apprehended that the Judicial Member did not bring an impartial and unprejudiced mind to the determination of the appellant's review application. The Judicial Member's observation of the appellant when he made the inadvertent disclosure, was clearly a matter relevant to the issue as to whether the respondent had established that a disclosure of the information in issue 'could reasonably be expected to' expose a person to a risk of harm or of serious harassment or serious intimidation. It was not the only matter before the Judicial Member in regard to this issue, but it was a matter raised by the respondent in Ms Anderson's affidavit and responded to by the appellant in her affidavit in reply. In reaching his conclusions, the Judicial Member was clearly entitled to have regard to all the information before him, including his own observations of the appellant at the 31 October planning meeting. 
We note that at no time following his inadvertent disclosure and prior to the publication of the Tribunal's Decision, did the appellant object to the Judicial Member determining her application. She had ample opportunity to do so, if this was of concern to her following the 31 October 2012 planning meeting. We can only assume it was of no concern to her.
For the reasons set out above, we find that the appellant has failed to establish that the decision of the Judicial Member was biased. And on this basis the appropriate order is to refuse the appellant's application for leave to appeal on the merits. 
Accordingly, we order: (1) The appellant's application for leave to extend her appeal to a review of the merits of the decision of the Tribunal at first instance is refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########33
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal panel- practice and procedure - residential tenancy - orderfor termination andpossession - tenants absent from hearing - application to set aside - refused -appeal - respondent's applicationfor summary dismissal - granted; applicationfor costs - granted in fixed amount.
This is an edited and extended version of reasons delivered orally by the presiding member on behalf of the Appeal Panel on 8 July 2014.
HIS HONOUR: The Appeal Panel has before it an application by the respondent to strike out or dismiss an appeal filed by Mr and Mrs Chester on 5 March 2014. They are the tenants of a flat at Bondi owned by the respondent. 
Section 55 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act) provides relevantly: 
The appeal has the following background. 
On 29 January in file no RT 14/01770 the Consumer Commercial Division of the Tribunal (CCD) (Levingston M) upheld the respondent's application under the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 for termination of the tenancy agreement. The Tribunal relied on two grounds: an arrears of rent (three days) in the sum of $300; and failure to comply with previous orders of the Tribunal. The Tribunal also found that the tenant had frequently failed to pay rent owing. 
The decision on its face would appear to have been a decision that was open to the Tribunal to make in the circumstances (see further below). 
On 4 February 2014 the appellants lodged a 'Notice of Appeal' (the notice) using the form prescribed by the Tribunal. Under the heading relating to the 'orders challenged on appeal' the appellants referred to the order of termination. In a covering letter accompanying the notice they requested an 'urgent stay' of the orders. The material accompanying the notice contended that there had been a lack of procedural fairness because the orders were made in the absence of the appellants. 
The notice was not stamped and an appeal file was not raised. Instead the file discloses that the appellants' attention was drawn to Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation 2013, cl 9 which gives the Tribunal the power to order that a determination made in the absence of a party be set aside on the ground that 'the party's absence has resulted in the party's case not being adequately put to the Tribunal'. The file discloses that the appellants withdrew this appeal and made an application under cl 9.
On 5 February 2014 the Tribunal stayed the orders for termination and possession until further order. The parties were ordered to file submissions, and a timetable was set. 
On 20 February 2014, the Tribunal dealt with the application on the papers. In its reasons the Tribunal (Harrowell PM) held that the Tribunal was correct to find that the payment made by the appellants on 28 January 2014, the day before the hearing before Levingston M, did not bring the monthly rent due on 26 January 2014 entirely up to date. The rent was short, as the member had found, by $300. 
The Tribunal rejected the appellants' assertion that the parties had reached an agreement that the respondent would have the application dismissed when it came on for hearing on 29 January 2014. The reasons also noted that the fixed term of the tenancy agreement would have expired in any case on 17 February 2014. 
The tenancy agreement had, at this point, a fixed term of four months, though the parties had been in a landlord-tenant relationship for around twenty years. Some of this history is referred to in the decision of 29 January 2014. 
The stay was lifted. The order for possession was suspended until 7 March 2014. The tenants were ordered to pay the occupation fee as provided in order 4 made on 29 January 2014 including for the period of the suspension.
On 5 March 2014 the appellants filed another Notice of Appeal. It is stamped, and a file was raised (14/0025). It is the foundation of these proceedings.
An appeal may be made under s 80(2)(b) of the NCAT Act 'as of right on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other grounds.' 
The discretion to grant leave to allow an appeal to proceed on any other grounds is circumscribed, in the case of appeals from the CCD, by cl 12 of Schedule 4 of the Act which provides that before doing so the Appeal Panel must be 'satisfied the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice' on one or more of the three grounds set out there.
The Notice of Appeal, as a technical matter, focused on the later event which was dismissal of the application to set aside the original order. 
However, Mr Jaron Chester - the appellants' son, who appeared for them at the hearing, has has made it clear today, and as I think a fair reading of the papers would suggest, that the real object of the Notice of Appeal is to have undone the decision made on 29 January. I will not get into issues today about whether or not the Notice of Appeal is affected by time in relation to that matter. 
The purpose of today's hearing was to hear the respondent's application for summary dismissal of the appeal. 
As my remarks already indicate, it seems to me that on the technical point of whether the decision made 29 January was based on a proper ground (namely the arrears of rent ground) then this appeal has no prospects of success. 
Mr Chester, on behalf of his parents today, has raised as he did before the Tribunal when it considered the application to set aside the order that had he or his parents been able to attend on 29 January a different outcome may have followed. 
The position in that regard appears to be this. The appellants do not dispute that they received the Tribunal's notice of the proceedings, they say they were led to believe they needed did not have to attend on the day because they had settled the matter (by the late payment made 28 January 2014) and the proceedings would be withdrawn. 
They were given the opportunity by the directions in the appeal proceedings that were made in April by Ms Rosser, my colleague today, to put on evidence in regard to that. No evidence has been placed before us in that regard, evidence in this context being at the least a formal statement setting out the particulars of the alleged communications made by, or on behalf of, the appellants and the replies said to have been given by, or on behalf of, the respondent.
On the other hand this contention is known to Ms Sassoon (the respondent's managing agent), and there is a long statement on the file from Ms Sassoon denying that she dishonoured in any way any agreement with the appellants to withdraw the application to the Tribunal, given that the rent paid was short of the full amount. 
It seems to us that Mr Chester, on behalf of his parents, had sufficient notice to get any evidence on by today. As to that matter, the material that is before the Appeal Panel would appear to indicate that there was no misunderstanding that might explain the non-attendance at the Tribunal hearing on 29 January. 
In any event the case is one where it is difficult to see how attendance would have made any difference to the outcome. The respondent pressed the case at the hearing before the primary tribunal that they had an unassailable ground upon which to be granted the order they sought. The Tribunal found, correctly we consider, that the respondent had given notice in the form required by the Act for the period required by the Act, there was rent in arrears and a history of rent arrears. So we cannot be satisfied that attendance on the day would have had any effect on the outcome of the case. 
Therefore, it appears to the Appeal Panel that there is no utility in having this case proceed any further to a full hearing, particularly in view of the appellants' failure to comply with the Appeal Panel's directions. 
On those grounds, therefore, the respondent's application to have the appeal summarily dismissed is granted. 
The question that now arises is the respondent's application for the costs of the proceedings pursuant to s 60 of the NCAT Act. Various matters were put before us by the respondent as to the 'special circumstances' that might justify an order for costs in a tribunal where the usual rule is that each party bears their own costs of proceedings. 
The terms 'frivolous' and 'abuse of process' have been used. I think that language might be seen to be too strong. Clearly the loss of occupation of a rental property is a very serious issue for tenants. 
The present case is one where the primary finding that provides the foundation for the termination is based on a relatively small arrears of rent. The case, on the other hand, that Mr Chester has put is a weak one for the reasons I have given. As already stated, it seems to us that the original order was relatively unassailable. 
The amount of costs that has been incurred to date is already significant. Had this matter gone on to a full appeal, that amount of costs would possibly have doubled. 
It seems to us that it is desirable to fix the amount of any costs order. 
The Appeal Panel is satisfied that there are special circumstances in this case. The special circumstances essentially have to do with the weakness of the contest with the original ruling made on 29 January. The Tribunal acted beneficially in making an interim stay order. 
The Appeal Panel then gave Mr Chester an opportunity to put on relevant material, in particular evidence. That opportunity has not been availed of in a manner that assists the Appeal Panel. Most of the material put before us is really a recitation of legal headings with little or no detail under any of those headings and that does not assist the Appeal Panel in any way. 
The respondent, the landlord, has been put to a degree of expense in responding to this material, a cost which in our opinion ought not to have been incurred by it. Had the material been brought forward in a concise and orderly way and admitted of relatively direct response we may have had a different view. But it seems to us in the circumstances some order for costs should be made. 
The Appeal Panel will make an order for costs in the amount of $1,500, that is that the appellants pay the respondent's costs of these proceedings fixed in the sum of $1,500. 
Having said that, I would encourage the parties to find a way through that enables the appellants to remain in occupation. But that requires the appellants to establish a rent payment arrangement that is orderly and predictable. And I should add it would have been helpful, I think, if the appellants had been here today to hear some of what has been said in the hearing room. I will have a written decision prepared and that can be provided to the parties. 
############# I'm default separator ##########34
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal panel- Residential Tenancy - sub lease of residential premises- tribunal orderterminating sub-lease on grounds of failing to pay rent -whether extension toappeal out of time should be granted
The appellant is the tenant of residential premises at [xxxx], East Sydney. On 7 May 2014, the Tribunal in the Consumer and Commercial Division (the Tribunal at first instance) made orders, under ss 87, 88 and 187 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The respondent and the appellant executed a written tenancy agreement, in respect to the premises on 16 September 2013. The term of the agreement was 6 months. However, the appellant has remained in possession of the premises since the commencement of the lease: see s 18 of the RT Act. 
The premises were rented fully furnished at a rent of $560.00 per week.
The Tribunal at first instance found that, as at 7 May 2014, the amount of rent outstanding was $10,400.00 and made orders accordingly. The appellant has not paid this amount, or paid the daily occupation fee as ordered on 7 May 2014. The appellant concedes that the last time she paid any rent was on 13 February 2014.
On 3 July 2014, the appellant lodged this internal appeal seeking leave to appeal the decision of the Tribunal at first instance. In her Notice of Appeal, the appellant also sought an extension of time to lodge her appeal and a stay of the orders made by the Tribunal. 
In her Notice of Appeal, the appellant ticked the 'no' box to the questions as to whether she objected to her extension of time application and stay application being dealt with on the papers. 
On 4 July 2014 Senior Member Rosser, on the papers, granted a stay of the orders made on 7 May 2014, made directions for the filing and serving of evidence and submissions and listed the matter for further directions on 11 July 2014 in the event the respondent wished to press an objection to the stay order. 
On 11 July 2014 the matter came before Principal Member Harrowell and Senior Member Rosser. The appellant and the respondent were both legally represented with leave of the Appeal Panel. 
However, the appellant's legal representative was granted leave to withdraw during the hearing as his retainer had ended.
After hearing short arguments from the parties, Principal Member Harrowell and Senior Member Rosser set the appellant's application for leave to appeal down for hearing on 16 July 2014. Orders were made for the respondent to file and serve a Reply. Orders were also made for the parties to file and serve any additional material on which they sought to rely and an order was made extending the stay to 5.00pm on 16 July 2014. 
At the conclusion of the adjourned stay and directions hearing on 11 July 2014, Principal Member Harrowell and Senior Member Rosser identified the matters for determination at the hearing on 16 July 2014 to be as follows:
On 16 July 2014, at the commencement of the hearing before the full Appeal Panel, there was no appearance by or on behalf of the appellant. The respondent's legal representative Ms Vo and Mr Orr of Towers Building and Management Pty Ltd (Towers), the respondent's managing agent, were both present. 
On being advised by the Registry that the appellant was on her way, the Appeal Panel delayed the commencement of the proceedings to enable the appellant to appear in person. The appellant arrived at approximately 11.00 am and sought an adjournment as she did not feel well. After some further questioning, the appellant informed the Appeal Panel that she agreed to her appeal (including the issues related thereto) to be dealt with on the papers. The appellant also confirmed that she had filed all the material on which she relied in her appeal. The Appeal Panel notes that the appellant had previously sought to have her appeal determined on the papers.
The respondent also agreed to this course. 
In light of the agreement of the parties and their assurances that they had filed and served all the material on which they relied, the Appeal Panel determined it was appropriate to dispense with the hearing pursuant to subs 50(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act), and determine the matter on the papers, subject to obtaining clarification in regard to the respondent's claim for unpaid rent. After obtaining written clarification from Mr Orr and the appellant, the Appeal Panel reserved its decision in regard to the appellant's application for an extension of time to lodge her appeal and her application for leave to appeal. 
Prior to Mr Orr giving his clarification as to the outstanding rent, the Appeal Panel also refused leave for the respondent to be legally represented further. The appellant had objected to leave being granted and as the matter was to be determined on the papers that had already been filed, the Appeal Panel formed the view that leave should be refused.
The Appeal Panel has now considered all the material that has been filed and served and for the reasons set out below the Panel has determined to, (a) extend the time in which the appellant is to lodge her appeal, and (b) to refuse the appellant's application for leave to appeal on the merits. 
In addition to the Appellant's Notice of Appeal (including the material filed with that Notice) and the Respondent's Reply (including the material filed with that Reply), the parties have placed before the Appeal Panel the following material:
The Appeal Panel also has before it the Consumer and Commercial Division files (Division file) relating to the decision the subject of this appeal. These are, Division files RT14/18297 and RT 14/25000 - the latter file being the appellant's application to set aside the decision of 7 May 2014. We also have before us the Division files of earlier applications to the Division that concern the premises and to which the appellant was a party. These are: 
The Tribunal received further documents from the appellant apparently on 16 July 2014, after the hearing had concluded, however no leave was granted to file further documents and they were not considered by the Appeal Panel.
The orders made by the Tribunal at first instance, on 7 May 2014, are in the following terms:
As can be seen from the reasons set out in the above orders, the Tribunal at first instance found that, as at 7 May 2014, the appellant's rent arrears went back some four months. 
Rule 25(4)(b) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (NCAT Rules) sets out the time within which an 'internal appeal' must be lodged in respect of residential proceedings. That rule relevantly provides:
There is no dispute that the appellant's appeal is an 'internal appeal' falling within s 32 of the NCAT Act and an appeal to which cl 25(4)(b) of the NCAT Rules apply.
Subs 41(1) of the NCAT Act gives the Tribunal a discretion to 'extend the period of time for the doing of anything under any legislation in respect of which the Tribunal has jurisdiction despite anything to the contrary under that legislation.' Subs 41(2) of the Act, provides that the Tribunal can exercise its discretion even where the prescribed time has expired. 
The appellant's Notice of Appeal confirms that she was notified of the Tribunal's decision on 7 May 2014. On 14 May 2014, the appellant made an application to the Consumer and Commercial Division to set aside the orders of the Tribunal at first instance: see cl 9 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation 2013 (NCAT Regulation). That application (Division file RT 14/25000) was dismissed, on 16 May 2014. In the Notice of that decision, the appellant was advised that she 'may lodge an appeal' if she 'believes she has a bases for setting aside or varying the orders made on 7/05/2014'. The Notice did not expressly refer to a right to make an appeal to the Appeal Panel.
In any event, the appellant's time for lodging an appeal to the Appeal Panel commenced on 7 May 2014 and she was required to lodge her Notice of Appeal, by 21 May 2014. This she did not do until 3 July 2014, which is more than six weeks outside the prescribed time in cl 25(4)(b) of the NCAT Rules. 
The Appeal Panel recently discussed the scope of the discretion to extend time under s 41 and the relevant matters for consideration when exercising this discretion in Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22 at [18] to [22]. At [18] the Appeal Panel noted that the discretion under s 41 is unfettered but is to be exercised judicially. The Appeal Panel went on to say that in exercising the discretion regard is also to be had to the statutory command in s 36 of the Act that the guiding principle for the Act "is to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issue in the proceedings".
At [22], the Appeal Panel set out the considerations generally relevant to determining whether time should be extended. In summary these are:
As noted by the Appeal Panel in Jackson (supra), at [25], the short period of time in which appeals may be lodged in respect of residential tenancy decisions is reflective of the nature of such matters and the legislature's balancing of the right of landlords and the rights of tenants. In Jackson, the Appeal Panel found that a delay of five weeks, in the circumstances of that case, did not 'tell substantially in favour of either granting or not granting the extension of time.' 
While the Appeal Panel agrees with the abovementioned remarks a delay of six weeks, in the circumstances of this matter, is a substantial delay.
In her Notice of Appeal, the appellant said that the reasons for her delay was - 'Medical Certificate provided - Attachment 1.' Attached to the Notice of Appeal was a medical certificate from Dr Shannon Saad dated 23 June 2014. Dr Saad said the certificate was provided in support of the appellant's application to extend time to lodge her appeal. 
At the stay hearing on 11 July 2014 the appellant provided the Appeal Panel with some additional medical certificates and other information. These certificates and information do not relate to the appellant's conduct in relation to these proceedings but the Appeal Panel accepts that they evidence ongoing health issues of the appellant.
The appellant requested that the contents of her medical condition remain confidential and not disclosed to the respondent or his managing agent. However, she consented to the respondent's solicitor being granted access to this information. The Appeal Panel notes that the appellant has raised her health issues in previous proceedings before the Consumer and Commercial Division and to some extent these issues are known to the respondent, through his managing agent. 
In light of the appellant's objection to the disclosure of the content of these medical certificates, their content is not disclosed in these reasons for decision. Nevertheless, the Appeal Panel accepts that the appellant has health issues and has taken these into account, but is not persuaded that these issues alone provide an explanation for the appellant's delay in lodging her appeal to the Appeal Panel: see ABH v NSW Trustee and Guardian  [2014] NSWCA 40. 
In the respondent's Reply to the appellant's Notice of Appeal, Mr Orr, on behalf of the respondent, opposed the application for an extension of time. He asserted that the appellant 'has demonstrated continued delay in prosecuting her appeal.' He said the appellant had not satisfactorily explained the delay in lodging her Notice of Appeal and inferred that the appellant's conduct since the orders were made on 7 May 2014 was for the purpose of maximising 'the time she remains in occupation of the premises'. The conduct to which Mr Orr referred was the appellant's application to the Supreme Court and the subsequent application to the Court of Appeal. 
Following her unsuccessful set aside application, on 23 May 2014 the appellant filed a Notice of Motion in the Supreme Court of NSW seeking a stay on the execution of the warrant for possession, which had been issued to the respondent on 19 May 2014. The Supreme Court made ex parte orders staying execution of the warrant up to and including the first return date of the appellant's Notice of Motion, which was on 20 June 2014. 
On 23 May 2014, the Supreme Court also ordered the appellant to file and serve a Summons. A copy of that Summons and the appellant's affidavit filed in support of that Summons is contained in the respondent's bundle of documents. In her affidavit the appellant said 'I will be making an appeal to the tribunal.' 
On 20 June 2014, the matter came back before the Supreme Court and the appellant applied for an extension of the stay granted on 23 May 2014. The Court refused the application and dismissed the appellant's proceedings before that Court. A copy of the orders made by His Honour Justice Bellew, on 20 June 2014, is contained in the bundle of documents filed by the respondent. 
In his submissions, the respondent said that the appellant's application was dismissed primarily due to the availability of an internal appeal, to the Appeal Panel of the Tribunal, and the appellant having indicated in her affidavit in support of her Summons that she would be lodging an appeal with the Tribunal: see subs 34(1)(c) of the NCAT Act. 
On 4 July 2014, the day after lodging her Notice of Appeal in the Tribunal, the appellant approached the Duty Judge in the Court of Appeal, the President of the Court of Appeal, Her Honour Justice Beazley, seeking a stay of the second warrant for possession, which had been issued by the Tribunal on 27 June 2014 at the request of the respondent. Her Honour granted a stay until and including 7 July when the matter was listed for further mention before the Court. The Appeal Panel has been informed that no further orders were made on the adjourned date, as the appellant had lodged her Notice of Appeal in the Tribunal and a stay had been granted.
On her own evidence, as at 23 May 2014 the appellant was aware of her right to appeal to the Appeal Panel and said she was going to lodge such an appeal. Yet she did not do so for almost six weeks. Instead she decided to preserve her position by prosecuting a claim in the Supreme Court and it was not until she failed in this forum that she lodged her Notice of Appeal in the Tribunal. As a result there has been a delay, causing substantial prejudice to the respondent.
Why the appellant took this course has not been satisfactorily explained. At the same time it cannot be said that she sat on her hands. She is an unrepresented litigant and it is evident from the submissions that she has filed in these proceedings that many of the issues she raises are misconceived. This misconception may, in part, arise from the fact that the managing agent for Ms Hartley and the respondent, Towers, initially commenced proceedings to terminate the appellant's lease in the name of Ms Hartley. This is discussed in more detail below. Notwithstanding this error, the issues have always been the same, namely the appellant's failure to pay rent when it was due and payable. 
Being unrepresented and raising issues that are confusing and misconceived are generally not a basis to extend time to lodge an appeal. However, having regard to the appellant's circumstances and the fact that the respondent's agent Mr Orr has consented to a variation, as determined by the Appeal Panel, of the money order made by the Tribunal at first instance, the Panel is of the view that it is appropriate to make the order sought to extend time to lodge the Notice of Appeal to 3 July 2014. 
Section 80 of the NCAT Act, makes provision for internal appeals. It relevantly provides:
Cl 12 of Schedule 4 of the NCAT Act sets out a number of limitations on internal appeals against decisions of the Tribunal in the Consumer and Commercial Division. That clause relevantly provides:
As the warrant for possession of the residential premises the subject of the orders made by the Tribunal on 7 May 2014, has been stayed the limitation in sub cl 12(2)(b) above does not apply in this matter. However, the limitation in cl 12(1) does apply. That is, other than an appeal on a question of law, unless the appellant is able to satisfy the Appeal Panel that she may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on one or more of the grounds set out in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) her application for leave to appeal must be refused. 
In Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17, at [76], the Appeal Panel made the following remarks in regard to the meaning of the phrase "substantial miscarriage of justice":
As explained in Collins (supra), at [15] to [17], the Tribunal has only one form for an internal appeal, which is called a Notice of Appeal: see also Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2010] NSWCATAP 22, at [8]. That form requires the party seeking to appeal from a decision of the Tribunal at first instance to indicate whether the party seeks to appeal on a question of law, and/or whether leave to appeal on other grounds is sought. Where a party seeks leave to appeal, the Notice of Appeal form requires the party seeking to appeal to identify whether they are appealing from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division and if the answer is 'Yes', the form makes provision for the party to address each of the abovementioned limitations in cl 12(1)(a), (b), or (c). 
In her Notice of Appeal, the appellant identified the orders she was challenging as follows:
The appellant went on to identify her grounds of appeal as:
The appellant described the orders she said the Appeal Panel should make were as follows:
During the hearing of the appellant's stay application on 11 July 2014, the appellant said she no longer sought an order in respect of the respondent's belongings or any orders against Ms Hartley. However, she was seeking a finding that, at the time the Tribunal at first instance made the orders on 7 May 2014, she no longer had a tenancy agreement with the respondent, it having been terminated on an earlier date.
In her Notice of Appeal, the appellant said that she was asking for leave to appeal the decision of the Tribunal at first instance. The appellant went on to address each of the matters set out in cl 12(1)(a), (b) and (c) above. These are discussed in more detail below.
On behalf of the respondent, Mr Orr addressed each of the matters raised by the appellant and in summary contended that the appellant had failed to establish that she had suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice, as required under cl 12 of Schedule 4 of the NCAT Act. 
For the reasons set out below we agree with the respondent.
The appellant does not appear to have had legal representation when completing her Notice of Appeal. We have borne this in mind when considering her grounds of appeal and her grounds for leave to appeal on the merits. 
The appellant does not specifically identify an error of law being the basis of her appeal. She does however, as noted above, say at point 2 under the heading 'Grounds of appeal' - 'procedural unfairness (I appeared via telephone for medical reasons. Towers property did not provide me with the submissions tendered)'. The Appeal Panel assumes that this is a reference to a denial of procedural fairness, which, if established, is an error of law. 
As the appellant included the failure to be provided with documents tendered by the respondent at the hearing in her grounds for leave to appeal we have dealt with this issue under that heading (i.e. cl 12(1)(b) -decision is against the weight of evidence). The Appeal Panel has found that the appellant has failed to establish this ground and hence a claim of denial of procedural fairness, if made, has not been established. 
In regard to the decision of the Tribunal at first instance not being fair and equitable, the appellant said:
The Division file RT 14/18297 confirms that, at her request, the appellant appeared at the hearing by telephone. The respondent also appeared by telephone and Mr Orr, from the respondent's managing agent Tower, was present in person. The Division file also contains a completed 'Hearing Notes' form and notes the oral evidence given by both parties. The Notice of Order issued on the date of the hearing records the orders made and notes that oral reasons were given. Neither party to the proceedings requested written reasons. 
Notwithstanding the rather lengthy procedural history of the appellant's leased premises before the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, the Appeal Panel is not persuaded that the appellant has established that the decision she seeks to appeal was not fair and equitable.
The respondent commenced proceedings against the appellant in regard to the residential premises on 3 April 2014, when Tower lodged an electronic application on behalf of the respondent in the Consumer and Commercial Division. The application sought orders for termination of the respondent's residential tenancy agreement with the appellant and other related orders. In the application, the reasons for the orders sought were said to be the appellant having failed to pay rent since 28 December 2013 and that there was an amount of $7,680.00 outstanding. The application was given the Division file of RT 14/18297.
In compliance with the principles in ss 36(1) and 37 of the NCAT Act, applications of this nature are listed for conciliation and hearing at the earliest available date. A Notice of Conciliation and Hearing is sent to the parties. Attached to the Notice sent to the respondent is a copy of the applicant's application. The Notice of Conciliation and Hearing advises the parties of the hearing date and time. It also informs the parties 'if conciliation is unsuccessful, or only one party appears, the case proceeds to hearing.' The Notice also states - 'As this is the first hearing you are not required to bring witnesses. However, you should bring with you all the relevant documents or material to support your case.' The Appeal Panel notes that on the same day as the respondent's application was lodged, a Notice of Conciliation and Hearing, addressed to the appellant and also a Notice addressed to the respondent was generated. Each Notice was in the usual form and stated that the respondent's application was listed, on 14 April 2014, and that the appellant and respondent were required to attend. 
On 10 April 2014, the appellant sent an email to the Division's Registry requesting an adjournment of the hearing as she was a student and had assessment exams on the nominated hearing date. The respondent had also sought to appear by telephone as he was in New Zealand.
On 11 April 2014, Member Simon, made an order adjourning the hearing. The parties were notified, in writing, that the conciliation and hearing was adjourned.
On 15 April 2014, the Division's Registry issued a further Conciliation and Hearing Notice, which stated that the application was listed on 24 April 2014 and that the respondent would be appearing by telephone as he was overseas. On 22 April 2014, the appellant sent a further email to the Division's Registry requesting to appear by telephone. In support of that request, the appellant provided a medical certificate from Dr Saad. The matter was adjourned on 24 April 2014, and the Division's Registry issued a further Conciliation and Hearing Notice, which stated that both parties would be appearing by telephone and that the application was adjourned to 7 May 2014. 
On 6 May 2014, the appellant sent an email to the Division's Registry enquiring about the 'duration for the phone hearing tomorrow'. She said she had been advised that the hearing would take about 30 minutes and she attached a copy of her student timetable as she would be unavailable after 3pm.
It is apparent from the hearing notes of the Member that the matter commenced at 1:45pm and concluded at about 2:25pm.
In light of this sequence of events it is difficult to accept the appellant's contention that the process and circumstances were not made clear and accessible, or that she was not given a reasonable opportunity to be heard. 
As noted above, the hearing on 7 May 2014 was not the first time the appellant had been issued with a Conciliation and Hearing Notice in regard to tenancy of the subject premises. 
Earlier this year, on 31 January 2014, Tower as managing agent for Ms Hartley, the owner of the premises, lodged an electronic application for the termination of the appellant's lease of the premises on the basis of the appellant's failure to pay rent (Division file RT 14/05949). That application was made on the basis of a termination notice served on the appellant by Mr Orr, naming 'Carl Snyman sub-tenant to Vera Hartley' as the landlord. On the lodgement of this electronic application for termination, the matter was automatically set down for conciliation and hearing at the earliest available date, being 17 February 2014. A Conciliation and Hearing Notice was issued and sent to the parties accordingly. The Division file in this matter contains an email from the appellant, sent on the morning of the allocated hearing, to the Division's Registry requesting an adjournment of the hearing for medical reasons. However, the matter proceeded and the Tribunal made orders for the termination of the lease (on the grounds of unpaid rent) and related orders. 
On 25 February 2014, the appellant made an application to set aside the decision of the Tribunal, under cl 9 of the NCAT Regulations (Division file RT 14/10924) and the respondent, Dr Snyman, also made a similar application (Division file RT 14/15039). Both applications were determined on the papers, by Senior Member Smith on 20 March 2014. Senior Member Smith dismissed the appellant's application on the basis that he was not satisfied on the information before him that if the matter were to be set aside there would be a different outcome. The application of the respondent, however, was allowed. As a consequence, Ms Hartley's application was listed for a re-hearing on 3 April 2014. The appellant actively participated in these processes and appeared at the hearing on 3 April with a support person. On 3 April 2014, Member Levingston found that there was no tenancy agreement between the appellant and Ms Hartley and on this basis dismissed Ms Hartley's application for termination. Member Levingston found that there was a tenancy agreement between the appellant and the respondent. He also found that the appellant had breached that agreement by failing to pay rent when it was due and payable. However, as there was no application for termination of the tenancy agreement between the respondent and the appellant no orders for termination could be made. 
The decisions made in these earlier proceedings are not the subject of this appeal, however they do demonstrate the appellant's familiarity with the Tribunal's processes in regard to residential tenancy matters of the kind the subject of this appeal. Hence, in the absence of any evidence to indicate that the appellant expressed concerns about the process at the time of the 7 May hearing, or shortly thereafter, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the appellant has established that the decision of the Tribunal at first instance was not fair and equitable on the grounds relied upon by the appellant. 
The essence of the appellant's argument in regard to the decision being against the weight of the evidence is that: (a) she did not present the Tribunal with any documentation as she had been told the allotted time was to conciliate the matter, and (b) as the respondent presented a number of documents, which she did not see, the Tribunal should not have considered that material. The material presented by the respondent is identified by the appellant as follows:
The Appeal Panel is of the view that while this is articulated as a claim that the decision of the Tribunal at first instance is against the weight of the evidence, it is more properly characterised as a claim that the decision was not fair and equitable, or a denial of procedural fairness: see Collins (supra), at [77]. 
Subs 38(2) of the NCAT Act provides that the Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence and may inquire into and inform itself on any matter in such a manner as it thinks fit, subject to the rules of natural justice. The rules of natural justice, includes procedural fairness. At the same time, subs 38(4) of the NCAT Act provides that the Tribunal is to act with as little formality as the circumstances of the case permit and according to good equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case without regard to technicalities and legal form: see also subs 36(1) of the NCAT Act which provides that the guiding principles for the Act and the procedural rules, in their application to proceedings in the Tribunal is to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings. 
There does not seem to be a dispute that the appellant was aware, during the course of the hearing that these documents were being presented at the hearing. Whether she objected is not clear. In any event it is convenient to consider separately each document, its relevance to the matters in issue before the Tribunal at first instance and whether the appellant was denied procedural fairness in not being given an opportunity to know what was contained in these documents.
The management agreement between the respondent and his managing agent was presumably presented at the hearing to establish that Mr Orr had authority to appear and give evidence on behalf of the respondent. The appellant had not previously raised any objection to him doing so in these proceedings or the prior proceedings. Furthermore, on her own evidence, the appellant regularly dealt with Mr Orr in his capacity as the respondent's agent. 
The management agreement does not otherwise contain any relevant evidence concerning whether rent has been paid as required by the residential tenancy agreement. Accordingly, it is difficult to see how a failure to provide this document to the appellant prior to the hearing caused any prejudice to the appellant. 
In regard to the residential tenancy agreement between the appellant and the respondent it is clear the appellant was aware of this document and its terms. The appellant had co-executed this agreement in September 2013 and again it is improbable she did not already have a copy. It is noted a full copy of that agreement is contained within the bundle of documents filed by the appellant in this appeal. A copy of the signed agreement was also before the Tribunal at the April 2014 rehearing of Ms Hartley's application for termination. It formed the basis of the findings of Member Levingston in regard to the appellant's tenancy relationship with the respondent. The appellant was in attendance at that hearing. 
The amount of rent outstanding was clearly an essential matter at issue in the respondent's application for termination and an order for the payment of that amount by the appellant. The ledger referred to by the appellant is in a form in which a landlord proves rent paid and that which remains outstanding. This does not mean that the tenant cannot challenge what is stated on the ledger, but in the absence of objection or proof of error the amounts recorded in the ledger may be accepted. In this case, the appellant had been provided with an earlier version of the ledger in the rehearing of Ms Hartley's application. The ledger presented on 7 May 2014 was an updated version of the ledger, as at the date of hearing. No additional payment entries were recorded and as noted below, there is no dispute that the payment entries are correct. The only difference in the ledger is an updated entry of rent charged up to 7 May 2014. 
The Appeal Panel notes that on 3 April 2014, the appellant was served with a Notice of Termination, which stated the amount of rent outstanding as at that date was $7,860.00. It was on the basis of this Notice that the respondent lodged his application for termination. Again having regard to the 'Hearing Notes' it is difficult to accept that the appellant was not informed about the updated amount in Tower's ledger, as presented by Mr Orr. There is no evidence that she objected to the total amount outstanding.
However, it is unnecessary for the Appeal Panel to deal with this matter any further as the applicant has now had an opportunity to examine the ledger and Mr Orr, on behalf of the respondent, has agreed that the Appeal Panel is to examine his re-calculations, as set out in Exhibit 1, and those of the appellant set out in Exhibit A. Furthermore, the respondent has consented to a variation of order 6 of the decision of the Tribunal at first instance if the Appeal Panel's determines a different amount is payable to the amount contained in order 6 made on 7 May 2014.
We have dealt with this issue below.
However, it is sufficient to conclude the Appeal Panel finds that the appellant has failed to establish this ground in support of her application for leave to appeal. She requested to attend the hearing by telephone. Her request was granted and the matters in issue at the hearing were well established prior thereto. Accordingly, for the reasons set out above, the Appeal Panel finds that the applicant has failed to establish that she was denied procedural fairness as asserted. 
Under this ground, in her Notice of Appeal, the appellant said: 'I wish to produce an emails (sic) from Towers property management and Ms Hartley.' In response to the question as to why these were not available at the time of the hearing the appellant said she did not produce any submissions due to her appearance by telephone. 
As noted above, the appellant had indicated under the heading 'Grounds of appeal' that she had new evidence, a copy of which was attached. Attached to the appellant's submissions were a series of emails the appellant seems to have cut and pasted into an email she sent to the Division Registry on 30 June 2014.
Included in the appellant's documents is the following email, Ms Hartley is said to have sent to the appellant on 28 May 2014. In that email Ms Hartley said:
In the absence of the context in which this email was sent it is difficult to make findings in regard thereto.
However, the Appeal Panel has assumed that the appellant contends that this email supports her contention that at the time the Tribunal at first instance made its decision there was no residential tenancy agreement between the respondent and Ms Hartley. That is, his tenancy had been terminated. On the basis of her submissions, the Appeal Panel understands the appellant to contend that it ended in March 2014.
In asserting that the tenancy agreement between Ms Hartley and the respondent had ended, the appellant is acknowledging that such a tenancy agreement did exist. However, if it did exist it can only be terminated on one of the grounds set out in s 81 of the RL Act, which provides:
There is no evidence to support that the respondent's residential tenancy agreement with Ms Hartley terminated under any of the abovementioned circumstances. On the evidence, the respondent has not given up 'possession' of the premises. The fact that he does not occupy the premises is not material as the residential tenancy agreement gives him a right to possess the premises and that is a continuing right where the tenant sub-leases the premises to another tenant. Nor is there any evidence that Ms Hartley has taken steps to terminate the lease. Had the respondent's tenancy agreement been terminated, then subject to a new agreement with Ms Hartley, the appellant's tenancy would also have been terminated at the same time and she would have been required to give vacant possession. 
Accordingly, while Ms Hartley may wish to terminate the tenancy agreement she has with the respondent, this has not occurred as a matter of law. Nor has Ms Hartley entered a tenancy agreement with the appellant. Her email clearly states that she was not willing to enter a tenancy agreement with the appellant until such time the appellant paid her arrears in rent. 
Accordingly, the new evidence relied on by the appellant would not alter the findings of the Tribunal at first instance that at the time the orders were made there was an ongoing residential tenancy agreement between the appellant and the respondent in regard to the premises. 
For completeness, the Appeal Panel will briefly deal with the issue as to the agreed weekly rent amount raised in the appellant's submissions. This was not an issue raised in the grounds for leave to appeal and appropriately so. The appellant seems to assert that in light of the respondent having removed his furniture from the premises, the extra rent paid for the premises being furnished should not be charged from the time this furniture was removed. What should be charged, the appellant asserts, is the weekly amount referred to in the email of Ms Hartley. Whether the appellant has a claim in this regard is not for the Appeal Panel to determine and we have not done so. Nor was there an application by the appellant before the Tribunal at first instance seeking an order to reduce rent under section 44 of the RT Act on the basis of the premises no longer being furnished and services having been withdrawn. 
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel finds that the appellant has failed to establish this ground in support of her application for leave to appeal
On the basis of the findings above, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the appellant has established that she has suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice as required under cl 12 of Schedule 4 of the NCAT Act. Accordingly, her application for leave to appeal on the merits of the decision of the Tribunal at first instance is refused. 
The Appeal Panel also notes that even though it has found that the appellant has failed to establish that she has suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice to warrant the exercise of the discretion to grant leave to appeal on the merits, the Tribunal at first instance did not make a finding of frequent non-payment of rent, under subs 89(5) of the RT Act. Therefore, even in circumstances such as these where there is a substantial amount of rent is unpaid, it is open to the appellant to pay the rent or comply with a repayment agreement with the respondent prior to the execution of the warrant for possession. If such a payment is made, by reason of subs 89(3) of the RT Act, the termination order and any warrant for possession ceases to have effect. 
As noted above, prior to reserving our decision, Mr Orr was sworn and questioned about the rent ledger which had been tendered on 7 May 2014. At the Appeal Panel's request, he re-calculated the amount of rent the respondent claims was owing as at 7 May 2014. Mr Orr's calculation is set out in a document accepted into evidence as Exhibit 1. This document states that the rent payable from 16 September 2013 (the date the tenancy commenced) to 7 May 2014 was $18,640.00, from which was subtracted the sum of $2,500.00, being an amount agreed between the parties after the appellant had complained about a non-operational fridge which resulted in no rent being payable in November 2013. The appellant described this payment as compensation and the respondent described it as a rent free period. Their differing descriptions are not material to this appeal.
Exhibit 1 also sets out rent payments made by the appellant from the beginning of the tenancy amounting to $5,860.00 and states that the rent owing as at 7 May 2014 is $10,280.00, which is marginally less than that claimed at the hearing (i.e. $10,400.00). 
The appellant did not agree with Mr Orr's calculation. At the request of the Appeal Panel, the appellant provided a document that set out her calculations (Exhibit A). 
In regard to the amounts paid by the appellant, there is no dispute as to the total amount of rent paid. In addition, the appellant included her payment of the bond as 'rent'. That amount is not included in Mr Orr's calculations, as rental bonds are required to be forwarded to the Rental Board and not held by the managing agent. Otherwise, Mr Orr's record of payments received corresponds to the amounts the appellant says she paid and Mr Orr confirmed that the rental bond was still held by the Rental Board. 
In regard to the amounts charged, Mr Orr's calculations differed to that of the appellant as the appellant's calculation go for a shorter period of time (only to March 2014). The appellant submitted there were 229 days from the commencement of the tenancy on 16 September 2013 to 7 May 2014. This is clearly incorrect.
The Appeal Panel has also made its own calculations. While the Appeal Panel calculated one additional day to that of Mr Orr, the Appeal panel has accepted Mr Orr's calculation of $10,280.00 which is less than the sum originally payable under Order 6 of the orders made by the Tribunal at first instance. In light of those findings and the agreement of the parties, it is appropriate that the amount in Order 6 is varied accordingly.
The order for possession was previously stayed. The stay should be lifted. However, it is appropriate to vary the order for possession to allow the appellant to consider these reasons for decision and vacate the premises. Considering the time since possession was originally required and the benefit the appellant has enjoyed, a short period should be allowed.
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel considers it appropriate to vary the date in Order 3 of the decision of the Tribunal at first instance by deleting the date 14 May 2014 and substituting the date 30 July 2014. 
For the reasons set out above the Appeal Panel makes the following orders:
############# I'm default separator ##########35
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -application to issue summons - Rule 34 - refused.
The appellant has applied for a summons to be issued for the purpose of obtaining evidence in relation to his appeal. For the reasons set out below this application is refused. The refusal of this application is not intended to involve any criticism of the appellant who has, as far as the Appeal Panel can discern, conscientiously attempted to prepare an appropriate draft form of summons but has been unsuccessful. Accordingly, the Appeal Panel has taken the trouble to indicate in these reasons how the problems with the present draft form of the summons can be overcome. It is noted that the hearing of this appeal is not due to take place until 2 October 2014 (a date chosen to suit the appellant). Accordingly, there should be sufficient time for a fresh summons to be prepared and served, if the appellant wishes to do so. 
The Appeal Panel has dealt with this matter in greater detail than might otherwise be appropriate having regard to the amount involved in these proceedings in order to provide some general guidance in relation to the issue of summonses in proceedings in the Tribunal. 
On 15 May 2014, a Member sitting in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal dismissed the appellant's application in proceeding number MV13/57046. In this application the appellant had claimed an amount of $1,938.29 which was said to be the amount of the loss suffered by the appellant as a result of a "5th wheel hitch" installed by the respondent being faulty and the installation not having been done in a proper and workmanlike manner or having been defective. The wheel hitch was installed on the appellant's Holden Colorado motor vehicle. 
In general terms, the Tribunal below dismissed the application because it was not satisfied that: (1) the goods supplied were faulty or that the installation was defective or was not done in a proper and workmanlike manner; 
On 29 May 2014 the appellant lodged a notice of appeal against the order dismissing his application. In that notice of appeal, the appellant quite correctly indicated that he was seeking leave to appeal. The use by the Tribunal of a multipurpose notice of appeal form which includes both an application for leave to appeal and the appeal itself as well as other matters has been explained in Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22 at [8]. 
As the decision appealed from was made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, in order to be able to grant leave to appeal the Appeal Panel is required to be satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because: (1) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was not fair and equitable, or 
Presumably with a view to establishing one or more of the grounds referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) of Schedule 4 to the Act and to support his appeal, the appellant has applied to have a summons issued to: "GMH - Holden" at a Post Office Box in Victoria. On 24 June 2014 the appellant lodged a completed draft form of summons and paid the requisite fee. 
The question of whether the summons should be issued has been referred to the Appeal Panel as the registry perceived that there may be difficulties with whether the summons could be issued. 
The draft form of summons indicates that the appellant was seeking to have a summons to produce documents issued. In accordance with the instructions on the summons form available on the Tribunal's website, the appellant correctly deleted the parts of the form that related to summonses to give evidence or to give evidence and produce documents. 
There are, however, a number of difficulties with the draft form of summons submitted by the appellant which mean that it cannot be issued in the form submitted. How these may be cured will be dealt with in more detail later in these reasons. 
It is appropriate at this point to identify the relevant legislative provisions which apply. 
Under s 48 of the Act the Tribunal may issue summonses for the purposes of the Act. Section 48 provides:
Further provisions relating to the issuing of summonses and related matters are dealt with in rule 34 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (NSW) (the Rules). Rule 34 provides:
Various forms of application for the issue of a summons (depending on whether it is to be served interstate or not) can be obtained from the Tribunal's registry and are also available on the Tribunal's website (for example at http://www.ncat.nsw.gov.au/ncat/administrative_equal_opp/aed_forms.html ).
Finally, there is a procedural direction made under s 26 of the Act relating to summonses, Procedural Direction 2 (February 2014) - Summonses. That procedural direction is available on the Tribunal's website (at http://www.ncat.nsw.gov.au/ncat/publications_and_resources/procedural_directions.html ). It provides in part:
In addition, in paragraphs 16 to 23, Procedural Direction 2 deals with service of the summons once it is issued. Where, as in this case, the summons is issued on the application of a party, it is the responsibility of that party to serve the summons on the person who is required to attend and produce documents. In addition, if a summons is to be served outside New South Wales the procedures specified in the Service and Execution of Process Act 1992 (Cth) must be followed. In this regard, paragraphs 16 and 23 of Procedural Direction 2 provide:
The Tribunal has attempted to assist parties to comply with the procedures under the Commonwealth Service and Execution of Process Act 1992 by having an Application for leave to serve summons interstate and a form of Summons to give evidence for service interstate available at the registry and on the Tribunal's website (for example at http://www.ncat.nsw.gov.au/ncat/administrative_equal_opp/aed_forms.html ). 
It appears that the appellant lodged a form of summons but no application for a summons to be issued. This would not necessarily have been a problem if the summons provided had been in an appropriate form for service. Unfortunately it was not in a number of respects. Before considering the problems in the form of summons proposed it is worthwhile pausing to observe that the requirement for a party to file an application for a summons to be issued is not a useless formality. It is designed to ensure that parties are assisted to prepare summonses correctly and that the documents required to be produced are "apparently relevant" to the issues in the proceedings so that, to use a more legalistic expression, the summons will have a "legitimate forensic purpose" - see for example Attorney-General for New South Wales v Stuart  (1994) 34 NSWLR 667 at 681. The problems with the summons the appellant has drafted are as set out in the following paragraphs. 
First, the draft form of summons did not identify correctly the person who was ordered to comply with the summons, in accordance with paragraph 15(b) of Procedural Direction 2 quoted above. The draft summons is addressed to "GMH - Holden" which is likely to be a corporation or a name under which the corporation trades. The relevant corporation should be correctly identified by its full name including "Pty Ltd" or "Limited" as appropriate. In addition, Procedural Direction 2 requires a summons for the purpose of having a corporation produce documents to be addressed to the corporation, properly identified, "by its proper officer". The basis for this requirement was explained by the High Court in Rochfort v Trade Practices Commission [1982] HCA 66;  (1982) 153 CLR 134 at 146. 
This is not a mere technicality. Like a subpoena issued by a Court, a summons is a formal order of the Tribunal. If a person fails to comply with a summons without lawful excuse, that person may be liable to punishment, or to be otherwise dealt with, under the enforcement provisions found in Part 5, ss 71 to 78, of the Act. As a result it is necessary for a summons to identify with clarity and precision the person who is required to comply with the summons. 
Secondly, the address provided is a post office box. Generally, a document can be served on a corporation by any of the means identified in s 109X of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) and this is usually by: (1) leaving the document at or posting it to the registered office of the corporation; or 
Thirdly, Part B of the draft form of summons, does not actually identify any documents which are to be produced. Rather what is set out in the relevant portion is a series of 9 questions as follows:
These questions are, in effect, what Courts would call "interrogatories". Interrogatories are questions that a party may ask of another party before the hearing. The Tribunal has no formal procedure of this kind. Furthermore, the questions in the present case are directed to a third person who is not a party to the proceedings. The power to issue summonses under s 48 is limited to summonses requiring the person to whom it is addressed:  (1) to attend and give evidence, or
One way for the appellant to overcome this problem is for the summons to require production of documents that contain or are likely to contain the information he is seeking. 
Fourthly, if the summons is to be served outside New South Wales and in Victoria as the address given by the appellant suggests, leave to do so is required under s 57 of the Service and Execution of Process Act. The appellant has not sought this leave. In addition, the summons must be accompanied by the designated form under that Act (Form 5). The draft form of summons provided by the appellant does not do so. Form 5 is provided as part of the form of summons to give evidence for service interstate available at the registry and on the Tribunal's website (for example at http://www.ncat.nsw.gov.au/ncat/administrative_equal_opp/aed_forms.html ). 
For these reasons, the summons should not be issued in the draft form put forward by the appellant. Accordingly, the appellant's application to issue a summons in the form of the draft summons filed by him is refused. 
This conclusion does not preclude the appellant from making a fresh application taking into account the matters raised in these reasons for decision. If he decides to do so, he should give careful consideration to using the following forms: (1) application for summons to be issued;
If the appellant decides to apply for the issue of a new summons in the appropriate form, he could seek a waiver by a Registrar of the requirement to pay the applicable fee. He has already paid one such fee in respect of the present application and should not be required to pay another. If he seeks such a waiver, he may bring these reasons for decision to the attention of the Registrar. 
If a new summons to produce documents is issued at the request of the appellant, he is required to serve the summons on the person who is required to comply with the summons - see Procedural Direction 2 paragraph 16 (quoted above). The Tribunal will not serve the summons for him. 
Finally, just because a summons to produce documents may be issued and documents may be produced in response, it does not follow that the documents will necessarily be relevant to the appellant's application for leave to appeal or that they will necessarily be admitted into evidence. That will be a matter for the Appeal Panel constituted to hear the application for leave to appeal. 
The Appeal Panel orders: (1) The application to issue the summons in the draft form submitted by the appellant on 24 June 2014 is refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########36
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -application for stay - rejected.
The appellant, Bentran Pty Ltd, has sought a stay of the order made against it in the Consumer and Commercial Division pending the determination of its appeal. For the reasons set out below the application for a stay is refused. 
On 25 July 2014 the appellant lodged a notice of appeal form in which leave to appeal against the order made by the Consumer and Commercial Division was sought (see section 12B of the notice of appeal). The order appealed from was made on 11 July 2014 and was as follows:
In section 14 of the notice of appeal form an appellant is required to indicate whether it is seeking a stay by ticking either the box marked "yes" or the box marked "no". If a stay is being sought an appellant is then required to identify the orders it wants stayed and to state why a stay is appropriate. The use by the Tribunal of a multipurpose notice of appeal form has been explained in Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22 at [8]. 
In section 14 of the appellant's notice of appeal, it has ticked the "yes" box in response to the question "Are you asking for a stay of any of the orders". In the space provided under the heading "If yes, explain which orders you want stayed and why a stay is appropriate" the appellant has stated:
There is no other material relating to the granting of a stay of the order which is apparent to the Appeal Panel. 
In section 16(a)(ii) of the notice of appeal the appellant expressly indicated that it did not object to the application for grant of a stay being dealt with on the papers. As the Appeal Panel has decided that a stay should not be granted on the material provided by the appellant, it was not necessary to hear from the respondent on the issues of whether or not the stay should be granted. In any event, an application for a stay is an interlocutory application which may be renewed in the circumstances discussed below at [14] and [15]. In these circumstances the Appeal Panel decided to proceed to determine the matter on the papers under s 50 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act).
Under s 43 of the Act the lodgment of an internal appeal, such as the appeal in the present case, does not affect the operation of the decision appealed. Nonetheless, under s 43(3) the Tribunal may stay the operation of a decision pending the determination of the appeal. Section 43 provides in part:
A stay affecting the operation of a decision will in many cases involve staying the orders made by the Tribunal which give effect to the decision. 
As a result of the use of "may" in s 43(3) of the Act, the Tribunal has a discretion whether or not to grant a stay. That discretion must be exercised judicially and general principles which apply in relation to the exercise of that discretion can be derived from the terms of s 43(3) itself. Additional guidance can be obtained from the considerations applied by the Courts in deciding whether or not to grant a stay pending an appeal. The applicable principles can be summarised as follows: (1) Generally a successful party is entitled to the benefit of the decision or orders that the party has obtained at first instance, but a stay may be granted where the appellant has demonstrated an appropriate case to warrant the exercise of discretion in its favour - s 43(2) and (3) of the Act, Kalafair Pty Limited v Digitec (Australia) Pty Limited [2002] NSWCA 383;  (2002) 55 NSWLR 737 at  [28], Mushroom Composters Pty Ltd v IS & DE Robertson Pty Ltd  [2014] NSWCA 231 at  [7].
The appellant in this case has lodged a notice of appeal in which it seeks leave to appeal. It has asserted that payment of the amount the subject of the order appealed against should not be required pending the appeal. The only basis put forward is that:
Having regard to the principles set out above, the respondent to this appeal should be taken to be, at least prima facie, entitled to the benefit of the decision and order made by the Tribunal below. The onus is on the appellant to make out a case that it is appropriate for the Tribunal to grant the stay. The mere fact that the appellant is seeking leave to appeal and has filed a notice of appeal is insufficient, of itself, to demonstrate that this is a case in which it is appropriate to grant a stay. The appellant has not pointed to any circumstances which would make a stay of the order reasonably necessary to secure the effectiveness of the appeal. In particular there is nothing to suggest that the appeal would be rendered ineffective or nugatory if the appellant were required to pay $1,678 to the respondent immediately. If the Appeal Panel grants leave and upholds the appeal finding that the order should not have been made, the $1,678 can be repaid by the respondent to the appellant. There is nothing to suggest that the appellant cannot pay that amount or that the respondent could not repay that amount if the application for leave to appeal and the appeal were successful. 
The only order appealed against is an order for the payment of a relatively small sum of money by the appellant. The appellant has put forward no sufficient basis for concluding that the balancing of the competing rights favours granting a stay of the Consumer and Commercial Division's order. Similarly, the balance of convenience does not appear to the Panel to support the granting a stay. The appellant has not put forward any reason of substance why the interests of justice require that a stay be granted. 
Accordingly, the application for a stay should be refused. 
It should be noted here that an application for a stay of an order pending appeal is an interlocutory application which may, in appropriate circumstances, be made again. The general position is as follows: (1) there is no res judicata or issue estoppel that prevents an interlocutory order for a stay from being revisited and varied;
Accordingly, the appellant in the present case would not be precluded from making a fresh application for a stay if the circumstances materially changed or if there were new material so that there was a sufficient foundation for a stay to be granted in accordance with the principles set out above. 
The order of the Appeal Panel is that the appellant's application for a stay is refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########37
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal - alleged racialdiscrimination - Alleged victimisation after notifying respondentof complaints- referral to Tribunal for determination - Complaints found not substantiated -APPEAL - whether errors of law - circumstancesin which a finding of fact mayinvolve an error of law - findings in this case not affected by error of law -COSTS - respondent'sapplication for costs - granted - 'specialcircumstances'.
This appeal arises from a decision of the Administrative and Equal Opportunity Division of the Tribunal, in which it dismissed the appellant's complaints of racial discrimination and victimisation against the respondent, and awarded costs to the respondent: Obieta v Australian College of Professionals Pty Ltd [2014] NSWCATAD 8.
The complainant, and appellant, is a woman of Filipino background (Ms Obieta). The respondent is a private educational institution and registered training organisation (the College).
Between 11 October and 17 December 2010 Ms Obieta was a student at the College in two Certificate IV courses in Property Services, 'Real Estate' and 'Business Broking'. They are pre-requisites, respectively, for consideration for the grant of a real estate agent's licence and a business agent's licence. On 13 July 2011 Ms Obieta complained to the President of the Anti-Discrimination Board (ADB) that staff at the College had discriminated against her on the ground of her race and on the ground of her sex in the provision of its services, in contravention of the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977 (ADA). She also complained that she had, as a result of her complaints to them on these issues, been the subject of victimisation by the College, in contravention of the ADA. She had first raised her complaints in relation to the conduct of two of the trainers, Mr Compton and Mr Sullivan, with Mr Sullivan after his class on 9 December 2010. Mr Sullivan reported the complaints to the principal of the College, Mrs Sullivan, and she initiated an internal investigation (further details below).
On 19 January 2012 the President referred the complaints to the Tribunal at the request of Ms Obieta after attempts to resolve them by conciliation had not been successful. The College applied to the Tribunal for the summary dismissal of Ms Obieta's complaint under s 102 of the ADA, and was partially successful: see Obieta v Australian College of Professionals Pty Ltd [2012] NSWADT 208. 
As a result of the summary dismissal decision, the case that proceeded to full hearing in relation to unlawful discrimination was confined to her complaints alleging racial discrimination, which belonged to the period 29 November 2010 to 9 December 2010.
The summary dismissal decision confined her complaint of victimisation to some only of the events that occurred on and after 9 December 2010 which Ms Obieta relied on as causing her detriment. The decision permitted Ms Obieta's case to proceed in relation to three of the five allegations that she had made as to the detriments she suffered (see para [45]), described in the reasons as follows:
The applicable law is contained in the ADA: as to racial discrimination, see s 4 (definition of 'race'), s 7 ('what constitutes discrimination on the ground of race'), s 17 (discrimination on the ground of race by an educational authority), s 19 (discrimination in the provision of services)); as to victimisation, see s 50. These provisions are referred to in the summary dismissal decision and the decision under appeal. We will not repeat them here.
Ms Obieta commenced classes on 11 October 2010. Her complaints of mistreatment start with the class in the Business Broking module held on Monday 29 November 2010 and conducted by Mr Compton. This is Incident 1. Her next complaints all relate to classes in the Trust Accounting module conducted by Mr Sullivan. These are incidents 2 to 9: Friday 3 December 2010, four incidents (Incidents 2-5); Monday 6 December, one incident (Incident 6'), Thursday 9 December, three incidents immediately after class (Incidents 7-9). Classes in the courses ended on Friday 10 December 2010, and the final examination was held on Monday 13 December 2010. 
As noted earlier, on 9 December 2010 after class Ms Obieta complained to Mr Sullivan over his conduct and alleged it was discriminatory. Mr Sullivan made the complaint known to the principal of the College, Mrs Sullivan. On 16 December Ms Obieta wrote to Mrs Sullivan setting out all her complaints. On 17 December 2010 Mrs Sullivan asked another teacher, Mr Horton (a qualified solicitor) to investigate the complaints and report back to her. The Tribunal noted in its reasons that the complaints included all those considered by it (incidents 1 to 9) and others not now relevant. He conducted interviews with Mr Compton, Mr Sullivan, other staff of the College, and three students including Ms Doueihi. He presented his report to Mrs Sullivan on 8 February 2011 finding that there was no evidence to support the allegations made by Ms Obieta in respect of Mr Sullivan and Mr Compton. She advised Ms Obieta of the findings on 28 February 2011.
Separately there were exchanges between Ms Obieta and Mrs Sullivan over the procedures followed in relation to the conduct of the examinations, and the issuance of records of achievement and results. These circumstances provide the main basis for the victimisation complaint, and are not confined to a particular event in the way that each of the classroom-related complaints is presented. 
The Tribunal heard her case over six days in March, May and July 2013. At [19] of its reasons, the Tribunal summarised the issues for determination as:
In respect of each of the complaints the Tribunal was not satisfied that the treatment as alleged had occurred. Consequently Ms Obieta failed to establish a factual foundation that engaged the applicable provisions. 
Ms Obieta's right to appeal is governed by s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act). An appeal is 'as of right on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other grounds' (s 80(2)(b)). 
Ms Obieta's notice of appeal, dated 5 March 2014, is highly detailed, 29 closely typed pages with about 900 words per page. It is divided into Grounds 1 (pages 1-4), 2 (pages 5-20), 3 (pages 20-24), 4 (pages 24-25) and 5 (pages 25-29). 
Grounds 1 and 2 concern the Tribunal's findings and rulings in relation to the incidents of alleged racial discrimination. Ground 3 concerns the Tribunal's findings and rulings in relation to the victimisation complaint. Ground 4 relates to an alleged omission in the Tribunal's consideration of her case (in particular, a claim for aggravated damages). Ground 5 relates to the Tribunal's decision to award costs against her. 
Ms Obieta applied in the notice of appeal for a stay of the costs order. This matter was listed for a hearing on 19 March 2014. She did not appear. The College's legal representatives attended. They referred to the history of the proceedings, its cost to the College and moved for the appeal to be summarily dismissed under s 55(1)(c) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act), because the appellant had 'failed to appear in the proceedings'. The application was granted. Cases dismissed on this ground may be the reinstated (s 55(2)). Ms Obieta applied for reinstatement. Directions were given for both parties to file submissions on that issue. The College opposed reinstatement. 
On 14 May 2014, her appeal was reinstated. The Appeal Panel, constituted by a presidential member, was not satisfied that she had, in fact, received the Registry notice of the hearing prior to 19 March 2014. The notice was dated 12 March 2014, there was no information as to when it was placed in the mail system. The Appeal Panel could not be satisfied that it had reached her in the ordinary course of the mail ahead of the date for hearing. The application for a stay of the costs order was not granted, in light of an indication by the College that it would not move to enforce the order ahead of the hearing of the appeal.
In her notice of appeal Ms Obieta marked 'No' in the box 'Are you asking for leave' which is preceded by the statement 'Unless you are appealing a final decision of the Tribunal only on a QUESTION OF LAW you require leave to appeal'. At the hearing on 14 May 2014 Ms Obieta was asked whether she intended to confine her appeal to questions of law, as the marking indicated. An explanation was given to her of the difference between an appeal confined to questions of law appeal and one where leave is also sought for an extension to consider 'other grounds' or the merits. She confirmed that she was only making a question of law only appeal. We have dealt with the appeal on that basis.
In light of the extent of the submissions made by Ms Obieta in the body of the notice of appeal (of the order of 25,000 words), the directions made on 14 May 2014 limited the scope of filing of further material, and permitted the College to include in its Reply short submissions as to each of the five points of the Notice of Appeal (limited if possible to 2,000 words).
The hearing of the appeal took place on 2 July 2014.
The Appeal Panel has the ADB referral report and all the material considered by the Tribunal at the summary dismissal stage and the final hearing. There is no transcript of the proceedings. In addition we have the material filed in connection with the appeal. This comprises: the notice of appeal, the parties' submissions in connection with the reinstatement application, the respondent's formal Reply (6 June 2014), the appellant's authorities (25 June 2104), which included further submissions despite the Appeal Panel's direction made 14 May 2014, the respondent's list of authorities (25 June 2014), the appellant's supplementary authorities (2 July 2014), which also included submissions, a filing that also went beyond the scope of the directions.
These grounds relate to the dismissal of the racial discrimination complaints, with Ground 1 referring to the complaint relating to Mr Compton's conduct (Incident 1) and Ground 2 referring to the complaint relating to Mr Sullivan's conduct (Incidents 2 to 9).
Incident 1 (Mr Compton) and Incidents 2 to 7 (Mr Sullivan) refer to events said to have occurred in the classroom. Incidents 8 and 9 refer to conversations with Mr Sullivan after class on 9 December 2010 (the two were referred to together as Incident 8 in the summary dismissal decision). Ms Obieta's version of events was disputed. The Tribunal heard evidence as to what occurred from Ms Obieta, Mr Compton, Mr Sullivan and Ms Doueihi (called by the College), a classmate of Ms Obieta, who was present on the occasion of Incidents 1 to 7. 
(We have had difficulty with clearly identifying the factual findings of the Tribunal because of the way it chose to organise its reasons. Instead of simply organising the material incident-by-incident in a chronological sequence, and dealing with all relevant evidence at each point and referring to the applicable law, it chose to follow the method of summarising the evidence of each witness and recording findings as to their evidence at the foot of the account of their evidence. The result is that findings are sometimes scattered about in the reasons, rather than gathered together.) 
We will set out (with some excisions) Ms Obieta's opening paragraph of Ground 1, in which she itemises the alleged errors of law in the Tribunal's reasoning. The same text is repeated in the first paragraph of Ground 2. 
The material that follows after each Ground does not explain how the relevant law was misapplied given the findings of fact. 
Ms Obieta's appeal is misconceived insofar as it relies on the rulings made by the Tribunal on the summary dismissal application. It is clear law that a court or tribunal must only dismiss a case summarily, i.e. without full hearing, if, taken at their highest the facts as asserted by the applicant reveal not arguable case to which the respondent should answer. For fuller expositions of the principles, see, for example, the summary dismissal decision itself, Alchin v Rail Corporation NSW [2012] NSWADT 142 at  [19]- [26]; and Razaghi -v- Director-General, NSW Department of Health & Anor  [2002] NSWADT 4 at  [38]. 
The respondent is not called on to reply with evidence to the applicant's case at a summary dismissal hearing. At the full hearing the Tribunal had before it the evidence of the respondent's witnesses. It preferred their evidence in critical respects in relation to each of the incidents. 
The Tribunal accepted in the case of Incidents1 and 3 that there was conduct similar to that alleged by Ms Obieta. However it was not satisfied that crucial aspects of what was alleged had occurred (for example, in the case of Incident 1 Mr Compton in conducting the stand-up quiz had not confined his indications as to how was to sit down in the way suggested by Ms Obieta, and for example in the case of Incident 3 Mr Sullivan had spoken of hitting a person on the head with a baseball bat but the comment was not directed to Ms Obieta). In relation to the other incidents, it did not accept Ms Obieta's account, either declaring itself not to be satisfied on the balance of probabilities, or rejecting that any of the utterances attributed to Mr Sullivan had been made. On most matters, it preferred the evidence of the trainer, and gave significant weight on a number of disputed matters to the evidence of Ms Doueihi corroborating the trainers' accounts, and the corroboration afforded by the statements made by the trainers and Ms Doueihi in the interviews conducted by Mr Horton soon after the events in issue. 
In her submissions attached to each of the Grounds of the notice of appeal, Ms Obieta refers to evidence of hers, to parts of the evidence of the College's witnesses which she believes justified a different finding. 
A dispute with a finding of fact does not of itself raise a question of law. Nor is a tribunal of fact obliged in its reasons to recount and examine all of the evidence given by witnesses. There must be a defect affecting the reasoning process giving rise to a finding that is so great as to show that the Tribunal failed to discharge its duty to deal rationally with the evidence before it. 
There may be an error of law if, for example, its finding is based on no evidence, or no logically probative evidence, or it fails to have regard to critical evidence (see, for example, Mitchell v Cullingral Pty Ltd [2012] NSWCA 389 at  [2] per Allsop P, Fightvision Pty Ltd v Onisforou (1999) 47 NSWLR 473 at 513 (Court of Appeal); or it makes an adverse finding without addressing significant uncontroverted evidence to the contrary: State Rail Authority of New South Wales v Earthline Constructions [1999] HCA 3;  (1999) 160 ALR 588;  (1999) 73 ALJR 306); or it relies on irrelevant evidence (House v R [1936] HCA 40;  (1936) 55 CLR 499).
Provided these boundaries are not infringed, the trier of fact is immune from appeal on error of law grounds in relation to its findings of fact. A submission that the trier of fact's findings are against the weight of the evidence does not raise a question of law: see, for example, Lewis & anor v Registrar Consumer Claims Tribunal & anor [1999] NSWSC 381 (Bell J).
In our view, the Tribunal did not err in any of the ways described in its handling of its fact finding responsibility. 
We will not deal with each of the findings in detail. By way of illustration, we will refer to the Tribunal's approach to Incident 1. As we see it, this was a very significant event from the viewpoint of Ms Obieta, and it may well have been a trigger event for Ms Obieta's perception of what followed in Mr Sullivan's classroom in the period from 3 December.
At para [5] the Tribunal referred to Ms Obieta's amended points of claim, and set out her description there of incident 1, as follows:
The Tribunal summarised Ms Obieta's evidence as follows:
In the section dealing with Ms Doueihi's evidence, the Tribunal said:
It will be seen that the Tribunal accepted that Mr Compton had engaged in classroom exercise that started with all students being on their feet, questions being asked in a quiz like way, and students being asked to sit down as the exercise unfolded (but that request was not dependent on whether the answer was right or wrong) and that Ms Obieta was the only female left standing for some time along with several males, and finally she was left standing with one other student. He was then told to sit down.
In our view the way it dealt with the evidence going to this event does not disclose any error of law so far as the legal principles that constrain the fact-finding process.
There is one aspect of the reasons in para [46] that might raise a concern. The Tribunal said:
It is well established, as Ms Obieta noted in her written submissions, that it is not necessary to prove a racist intent or a racist motive in order to succeed in a racial discrimination case, and the same principle applies to other areas of anti-discrimination law: see, for example, Waters v Public Transport Corporation (1991) 173 CLR 349;  [1991] HCA 49;  103 ALR 513 at 520-1 per Mason CJ, Gaudron J, there dealing with Victorian legislation in similar terms to the NSW law under consideration here: 
While Waters was an indirect discrimination case, and not a direct discrimination case as here, its statement of the law is equally applicable to a case of the present kind. The 'material difference in treatment' must in some way be 'based on' the 'status or private life' of the complainant.
We agree with the respondent's submission on this point, that the above statement of the Tribunal is not one that reveals any misunderstanding of the relevant law, but is merely responding to the way Ms Obieta formulated her case, as set out in the amended point of claim quoted earlier. Further, we note that the evidence did not establish that Mr Compton knew of Ms Obieta's race, or that she was in fact left standing. 
In relation to the case against Mr Sullivan, we have noted above that the Tribunal was either persuaded, on balance, or was satisfied entirely that the utterances attributed to him did not occur, with one exception. The exception was incident 3. The Tribunal was satisfied that words similar to those considered by Ms Obieta to be hostile to her were uttered, but they were not directed at her. 
We will not set out here the detail of the Tribunal's analysis of the evidence on these matters. As with its approach to Incident 1, the Tribunal considered Ms Obieta's evidence, the trainer's evidence (here Mr Sullivan's) and any other relevant evidence, most importantly the accounts given to the internal investigator, Mr Horton.
In our view, no errors of law are revealed by the way it went about examining the evidence.
In relation to the victimisation complaint, the Tribunal heard evidence from Ms Obieta, Mrs Sullivan (the principal), Ms Fisher (a teacher with the College, knowledgeable in Ms Obieta's type of enrolment, and the certification procedures) and Mr Horton. 
The victimisation complaint refers to a number of events. Ms Obieta set out her version of these events out at paras 20 to 23 of the document headed 'amended points of claim' filed on 28 June 2013 at a time when the case was largely heard (five of the six days had been completed). The relevant paragraphs extend over four closely typed pages filed. The Tribunal did not summarise all of this detail in its decision, and we will not attempt to do that here. 
Her complaint of victimisation starts with what Mr Sullivan is alleged to have said to here in their discussion after the class of 9 December 2010. She reports him suggested that she not continue to attend the course. She considered that she was bound to attend the course, as her participation in the course was sponsored by the NSW government (under a productivity placements scheme aimed at disadvantaged students who were registered as job seekers and in receipt of Centrelink benefits). She considered that this comment constituted victimisation.
She then referred in support of her complaint of victimisation to the way the College dealt with her after it became aware of her complaints of discrimination. She complained that the Student Assessment Outcomes (SAO) Acknowledgement form sent to her on 20 December 2010 failed to assess her final examination questions in the module, Property Management. She complained that she was not properly assessed in the Business Broking assessment in two aspects. She complained that the SAO did not cover Business Broking.
She made similar complaints in relation to the contents of further SAOs issued to here, in that they lacked reference to five units of competency in the real estate course and one common unit of competency relating to business broking. She complained that the deficiencies in the documentation issued to her where only corrected by the College after the matter had reached the Tribunal at a case conference held in February 2012. 
She referred to other events that occurred while the case was before the Tribunal that she saw as an unfair attempt to compromise her complaint as about the inadequacy of the documentation of course outcomes.
The Tribunal's examination of the evidence relating to the victimisation complaint is found at para [49] (Mr Horton's evidence that he was asked to mark Ms Obieta's trust account assignment, to avoid any concern that might arise by leaving it to the teacher, Mr Sullivan), at paras [50]-[66] (Ms Fisher's explanation of the courses that were undertaken by Ms Obieta, and the role of the NSW government scheme under which she was enrolled, her explanation of marking and assessment procedures, and the role and function of SAOs), and at [118]-[146] (the evidence of Mrs Sullivan, in relation to the administration of the assessments and the issuance of the results documentation). 
It will be seen that a large part of the Tribunal's reasons for decision were concerned with the complaint of victimisation. 
We set out below the main elements of the primary paragraph of Ground 3 of Ms Obieta's appeal ( we have made some excisions which do not affect the meaning) . 
For reasons given above in relation to Grounds 1 and 2, no error of law is raised by the objections made above that the Tribunal's findings were against the weight of the evidence, or they were not fair and equitable. Similarly no error of law can arise simply because inferences preferred by the appellant were not adopted, if the process of reasoning otherwise complied with the usual standards in relation to adequacy of reasons. We are satisfied that the Tribunal's fact-finding process was not affected by error. 
The key point, as we see it raised by this Ground, is whether the Tribunal gave proper regard to the scope of the case presented by Ms Obieta, as limited by the summary dismissal decision.
In our opinion, the Tribunal thoroughly examined the evidence relating to the three 'detriments' set as the boundary of the case by the summary dismissal decision: one, the reasons for the College (allegedly intentionally) not assessing her final examination questions in the Property Management module and in (allegedly intentionally) excluding the Property Management module from the list of modules assessed in the final examination; two, the College, (allegedly intentionally) not assessing Ms Obieta's Business Broking Module Assessment on two occasions and excluding her from the Business Broker Module Student Assessment Outcomes (SAO) document; and, three, the College (allegedly wrongly) failing to award the two qualifications which she successfully completed when Ms Obieta refused to sign the Student Assessment Outcomes document. 
We refer, in particular, to the findings in relation to Mrs Sullivan's evidence at [9] and [123]-[146]. The Tribunal found at [9] based on Mrs Sullivan's evidence that it was a requirement that the SAO document be signed by each student as a condition of passing the courses, and students who did so were awarded their qualification. The Tribunal found at [126] that the College would then issue certificates and transcripts to the effect a student had been assessed as competent in all subjects including the units of competency to which each subject related. The Tribunal was satisfied that the units of competency assessed, and which would be certified by the issue of certificates and transcripts, were those required by the licensing authority. The Tribunal observed: 
At [129], the Tribunal said:
It continued at [131]:
The Tribunal went on to consider events that occurred in January 2011, and dealt in particular with the omission in the SAO form of a reference to the agency agreement component in the Sale Business Broking module. It was satisfied that this was due to an administrative mistake on the part of the relevant trainer, and that the College rectified the error. 
In her submissions Ms Obieta asserted that there were other events in the period to 23 March 2010 which should have been examined. 
At para [7] the Tribunal said in respect of the victimisation complaint: 
We do not have a transcript covering these rulings. On the basis of the limits imposed by the summary dismissal decision and our examination of the material considered by the Tribunal in its reasons for decision, we are satisfied that the Tribunal dealt with the substance of Ms Obieta's victimisation complaint.
The damages question only arises if there is a proven contravention. As we are satisfied that the Tribunal did not err in law in dismissing the case, this ground does not require consideration. 
The case was filed and heard by the Administrative Decisions Tribunal, now abolished. The applicable law therefore was s 88 of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (ADT Act) which provides, relevantly:
The Tribunal dealt with the College's application at [148]-[178] of its reasons. The College's application referred, in particular, to two of the considerations specifically referred to in s 88(1A), i.e. conducting the proceedings vexatiously (a(iv)), and the relative strengths of the case ((c)). As another relevant matter (see (e)) the College's submissions referred to Ms Obieta's decision to decline to accept an offer made 26 November 2012 to settle the proceedings (payment of $5000 inclusive of interest and costs; plus provision of the SAO forms for both courses, with certificates and transcripts, in exchange for the usual releases). 
The Tribunal referred at [150] to Ms Obieta's case in reply. The first six points of the Tribunal's summary and the ninth point went to the fairness and adequacy of the main compromise offer and a related event that occurred at a settlement conference during the proceedings. The seventh and eighth points were that her case was bona fide and arguable, and that she was never invited to mediate. The ninth and tenth points were criticisms of the College's conduct - one, that it produced 'adverse documentation', causing her to have to investigate more issues and facts, and, two, that as a registered training organisation it must hold professional indemnity insurance.
The Tribunal relied on the following matters in deciding that contrary to the usual rule and contrary to the usual practice in the anti-discrimination jurisdiction of the Tribunal (see, further, Rae v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Force (EOD)  [2011] NSWADTAP 30 at  [7]), an order should be made:  the complaints and their prosecution was vexatious;  the way in which Ms Obieta chose to conduct the proceedings, and her failure to heed numerous warnings from the Tribunal;  the prolongation of proceedings (from a case that might have taken two days to one that took six days); and  while not all the complaints were without a tenable basis in fact or law, 'the relative strengths of the parties' claims could not have been more unequal' ([162]). 
The Tribunal then considered the submissions concerning the rejected compromise offer of 26 November 2012. The Tribunal did not accept Ms Obieta's submissions as to why the offer was not reasonable in the circumstances. It did not accept her other criticisms of the College's conduct of the proceedings. 
Excerpts follow from the primary paragraph of Ground 5 of Ms Obieta's notice of appeal:
In her submissions Ms Obieta in effect re-argues the case that she put to the Tribunal on this issue. 
The costs discretion is a broad one. An appellate tribunal should not lightly interfere with the primary tribunal's decision. In our opinion, the Tribunal's exercise of discretion did not infringe the principles laid down in House v R, cited above, per Dixon, Evatt and McTiernan JJ: 
In our view, the Tribunal examined carefully the cases put by the College on costs and the case in reply put by Ms Obieta. It had regard to relevant considerations, and did not, for example, allow extraneous or irrelevant matters to guide or affect it. There was no failure to take account of a material consideration.
The College applied, in the event that the appeal was dismissed, for an order against Ms Obieta awarding it its costs of the appeal. Ms Obieta opposed any such order, for reasons similar to those advanced by her at first instance. The provision now applicable is s 60 of the NCAT Act, which provides relevantly:
The exception ('special circumstances') is, arguably, narrower than the exception at s 88(1A) of the ADT Act ('fair to do so'). 
Ms Obieta's appeal was a weak one. The Tribunal at first instance was called on to consider nine separate incidents involving the classroom trainers, and then several events relating to the College's handling, mainly via the principal, of the complaints made by Ms Obieta over the certification process. The Tribunal dealt with the evidence in a comprehensive way. Ms Obieta's appeal sought to put in issue all aspects of the Tribunal's reasoning, requiring the College to make an 'all points' detailed reply. Ms Obieta's notice of appeal was of the order of 20,000 words plus. The directions made on 14 May 2014 did seek to contain the scale of the proceedings. 
So far as the factors listed in s 88(3) are concerned, we refer in particular to the following matters - 'the relative strength of the claims' made by the parties (s 88(3) (c)) and the lack of substance of the appeal (s 88(3)(e)). In the case of an unsuccessful appeal, we regard as a relevant matter (s 88(3)(f)) the fact that a costs order was made against the appellant at first instance. A successful respondent to an appeal who has been awarded costs at first instance has a strong claim to a costs award in relation to the appeal. The respondent has been exposed to a second round of litigation. 
It does not follow that because some factors to which s 88(3) are made out that a costs order should then follow. It remains necessary for the Tribunal to weigh whether those circumstances are sufficient to amount to 'special' circumstances that justify departing from the ordinary rule that each party bear their own costs. In this instance we are satisfied that the factors we have mentioned were of sufficient significance to justify a finding of special circumstances.
############# I'm default separator ##########38
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -application for stay - rejected.
In the afternoon of yesterday, 6 August 2014, the appellant, Mr Burriss, sought an urgent stay of the orders made against him in the Consumer and Commercial Division pending the determination of his appeal lodged on 5 August 2014. The Appeal Panel was informed that a warrant for possession was due to be executed at 10.30 am on the next day, 7 August 2014, in respect of the premises which were the subject of the orders sought to be stayed. The Appeal Panel heard the matter late in the afternoon of 6 August 2014 and decided that the application for the stay should be refused and made an order accordingly. Reasons were not provided at that time. These are the reasons for that decision. 
On 5 August 2014 the appellant lodged a notice of appeal form in which leave to appeal against the orders made by the Consumer and Commercial Division was sought (see section 12A of the notice of appeal, although this was not the appropriate section to be completed in this particular case). The grounds of appeal, in so far as they could be clearly discerned, appeared to relate to the question of how much was owed by the appellant, tenant, to the landlord, respondent and whether payments had been made or received rather than any errors in the determination by the Tribunal below concerning the orders terminating the residential tenancy agreement between the parties and requiring vacant possession to be given. 
The orders appealed from was made on 21 July 2014 and were as follows:
In section 14 of the notice of appeal form an appellant is required to indicate whether it is seeking a stay by ticking either the box marked "yes" or the box marked "no". If a stay is being sought an appellant is then required to identify the orders it wants stayed and to state why a stay is appropriate. The use by the Tribunal of a multipurpose notice of appeal form has been explained in Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22 at [8]. 
In section 14 of the appellant's notice of appeal, he has ticked the "yes" box in response to the question "Are you asking for a stay of any of the orders". In the space provided under the heading "If yes, explain which orders you want stayed and why a stay is appropriate" the appellant has stated:
There was no other material in writing relating to the granting of a stay of the order to which the Appeal Panel was taken by the parties. 
At about 1 pm on 6 August 2014, the appellant's urgent stay application came to the Appeal Panel's attention. An attempt was made to conduct a telephone hearing at about this time and the managing agent of the respondent, Mr Mark Torcellato, was contacted by telephone. The attempt to contract Mr Burriss, the appellant, on the mobile telephone number supplied on his notice of appeal was, however, unsuccessful. In these circumstances, the hearing could not proceed. The registry indicated to Mr Torcellato that a further attempt would be made to conduct a hearing in relation to the application after 4 pm when the Appeal Panel had completed the call over and directions hearings listed for the afternoon. 
The Appeal Panel subsequently became aware that a Mr Gray, purporting to represent the appellant, had presented himself at the registry of the Consumer and Commercial Division to press for the stay sought by the appellant. A message was passed to Mr Gray indicating that he should attend at the Appeal Panel call over and directions hearings as the application for a stay would be dealt with when the call over and hearings were complete. 
At about 4.30 pm on 6 August, Mr Gray appeared at the hearing and Mr Torcellato appeared by telephone. Although the Appeal Panel had no material before it to establish the authority of either Mr Gray or Mr Torcellato to act on behalf of the appellant and respondents, respectively, both Mr Gray and Mr Torcellato were apparently known to each other and each was accepted by the other as being a usual point of contact for their respective parties. They were both content for the other to represent the party involved. In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel granted leave to both representatives to appear, under s 45(1)(b) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act), in order to allow the application to be heard that afternoon. 
Mr Gray did not put before the Appeal Panel any sworn or written evidence in relation to the application for a stay and neither did Mr Torcellato. Nonetheless, both parties were given the opportunity to make any submissions on the application. In addition, avenues for an agreed resolution were also discussed with a view to facilitating the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings. An agreed resolution could not be achieved. As a consequence, the Appeal Panel was required to determine the application on such material as was before it. This will be discussed later in these reasons. At this point it is appropriate to set out the legislative provisions and principles applicable to an application for a stay in the Tribunal. 
The power of the Tribunal to stay the operation of a decision pending the determination of the appeal is found in s 43 of the Act which provides in part:
A stay affecting the operation of a decision will in many cases involve staying the orders made by the Tribunal at first instance which give effect to the decision. 
The Appeal Panel has recently summarised the principles applicable to stay applications in Bentran Pty Ltd v Sabbarton [2014] NSWCATAP 37 as follows: (1) Generally a successful party is entitled to the benefit of the decision or orders that the party has obtained at first instance, but a stay may be granted where the appellant has demonstrated an appropriate case to warrant the exercise of discretion in its favour - s 43(2) and (3) of the Act, Kalafair Pty Limited v Digitec (Australia) Pty Limited [2002] NSWCA 383;  (2002) 55 NSWLR 737 at  [28], Mushroom Composters Pty Ltd v IS & DE Robertson Pty Ltd  [2014] NSWCA 231 at  [7].
As the Appeal Panel understood it from the oral submissions made on 6 August 2014, it was not in dispute that the appellant continued to owe to the respondents unpaid rent and other charges in respect of the residential tenancy agreement in question as at that date. In the hearing, Mr Gray conceded that at least about $4,500 was outstanding. 
The most significant part, if not the entire substance, of the appeal appeared to the Panel to be an attempt to attack the consent order made by the Tribunal below. That order was: 
In the grounds of appeal section of the notice of appeal (section 11A of the notice of appeal) the appellant sought to raise matters expressed as follows:
In addition, section 11B contained the following as grounds of appeal: "at time of consent we ..[illegible].. had no time to [alter or audit ?] supporting data", "When we tried to work through ..[illegible].. member did not wish to admit that the BSB was incorrect", "Remote payment made and rent ledger does not display this Bank ..[illegible].. Respective manner of Raine and Horne". 
Further in the section for orders the Appeal Panel should make (section 11C of the notice of appeal) the appellant stated: "Grounds for set aside as orders consented to on July 21 have been based on information that is falsely inaccurate in regards to rent ledger. There needs to be a complete audit of the filing of rent arrears on the ..[illegible]..". 
In response to a question whether the appellant had paid rent (or perhaps more precisely the occupation fee referred to in order 4 of the Tribunal below) for the latest rental period, Mr Gray gave a somewhat unsatisfactory answer which appeared to amount to saying that an attempt had been made to pay the amount but there had been a problem with the bank transfer. 
The Appeal Panel's attention was not drawn to anything in the notice of appeal which indicated that the respondent was seeking to appeal against the orders terminating the residential tenancy agreement or requiring that vacant possession be given. Moreover, in response to a query from the Appeal Panel Mr Gray accepted that the appellant did not oppose termination of the residential tenancy agreement or vacant possession being ordered to be given by the appellant. His point was that the appellant just wanted more time to move out. This was consistent with the grounds for granting a stay set out in section 14 of the notice of appeal. 
Having regard to the principles set out above, the respondents should be taken to be, at least prima facie, entitled to the benefit of the decision and orders made by the Tribunal below. The onus is on the appellant to make out a case that it is appropriate for the Tribunal to grant the stay. 
The appellant has not pointed to any circumstances which would make a stay of the termination and vacant possession orders reasonably necessary to secure the effectiveness of the appeal. As far as the Appeal Panel understood it, the termination and vacant possession orders were not the subject of the appeal. The appeal in relation to whether the consent order could be overturned and whether the sum of $7674.29 referred to in order 6 was incorrect would not be rendered ineffective or abortive if the stay relating to the termination and vacant possession orders was not granted. Thus, a stay is neither necessary or appropriate on this basis. 
In balancing the competing rights of the parties, the Appeal Panel has taken into account the fact, which was not in dispute, that the respondents had obtained a warrant for possession which was to be executed at 10.30 am the next day, 7 August 2014, and had engaged a locksmith to deal with the locks on the premises the subject of the residential tenancy agreement. If a stay were granted of the termination and vacant possession orders, the warrant could not be executed. The respondents' right to possession would have been temporarily (at least) thwarted and they would have wasted the money involved in taking those steps. It also appeared that if the warrant was not executed because of a stay being granted, the respondents may not have been able to obtain the execution of a further warrant for some 3 or more weeks. There were no significant rights of the appellants which Mr Gray identified as being adversely affected by refusal of a stay. This was not surprising given the nature and grounds of appeal. This balancing does not favour granting a stay. 
In considering the balance of convenience, Mr Gray did raise the difficulty the appellant would have as a result of being forced to give vacant possession by execution of the warrant compared to an orderly leaving which he estimated would take 2 weeks. In this context, the submissions before the Appeal Panel suggested that there may have been subtenants or persons other than the appellant who would be required to vacate the premises but no specific or detailed information, let alone sworn evidence, was given in this regard. The Appeal Panel has taken this into account. Against this the Panel takes into account the disruption to the respondents to the appeal, having obtained the orders of 21 July 2014, then obtained a warrant and organised for it to be executed on 7 August 2014. To disrupt these arrangements involves relevant inconvenience. 
In addition, the Panel notes that the proceedings at first instance were apparently originally lodged on 25 June 2014. A hearing on 4 July 2014 at which the appellant (respondent to the proceedings below) did not appear was adjourned. The orders were finally made after a hearing on 21 July 2014 and vacant possession was ordered to be given on 28 July 2014. The notice of appeal was not filed until 5 August 2014 and the application for a stay was not pressed until the day before the warrant was due to be executed, on 7 July 2014. Some if not all of the inconvenience which might arise out of the appellant (and any other persons) being required to vacate the premises on 7 August 2014 was caused by his failure to take prompt action after the proceedings were instituted and the orders made. Having regard to the circumstances outlined above, the balance of convenience does not support the granting of a stay. 
The principal basis upon which Mr Gray put the application was that the appellant wanted more time in which to vacate the premises. In the light of the nature of the grounds of appeal relied upon and the other circumstances referred to above, the Appeal Panel does not accept that the interests of justice in this case require or even support the granting of the stay as sought.
Accordingly, the application for a stay was refused. 
The orders which the Appeal Panel made yesterday, 6 August 2014, were: (1) Mr Gray and Mr Torcellato have leave to appear and represent the appellant and the respondents, respectively, at the hearing on 6 August 2014.
############# I'm default separator ##########39
Gaming Machines Tax - change of hotelier - whether person hotelier atrelevant time - whether act distinguishes between "due" and"payable" - whethertax liability arises at end of quarter - whether tax liability arises 21 daysafter the end of the quarter -whether persons interested in hotel business -whether liability for quarterly instalment may be apportioned - whetherjurisdictionto review decision
A J Holdings (NSW) Pty Limited and Cumedo Pty Limited (the Appellants) were, by letters dated 4 and 1 May 2012 respectively, notified that they were jointly and severally liable to an amount for unpaid gaming machine tax (the Decisions) for the quarterly instalment period 1 October 2011 to 31 December 2011. The Appellants objected under cover of letter dated 28 June 2012 (the Objection). The Objection was disallowed and notice of the objection decision was given on 3 September 2012 (the Objection Decision). At first instance, the Tribunal upheld the Decisions: A J Holdings (NSW) Pty Limited & Cumedo Pty Limited v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue  [2013] NSWADT 156 (the First Instance Decision). The Appellants' appeal was filed on 30 September 2013. 
In short, liability for the tax is imposed on the person who is the hotelier, or interested in the hotel business, on the day a quarterly instalment is due. The primary question for the Appeal Panel is whether the due date is the last day of the quarter, or the 21st day after the end of the quarter (the 21st day). If the Appellants were the hoteliers at the relevant time, there is a subsidiary issue as to whether they were entitled to apportionment of the tax; and if they were not hoteliers at the relevant time, the subsidiary issue is whether they were nevertheless liable to pay the tax as persons interested in the hotel business, on that date. 
There is also a jurisdictional issue: whether the Decisions are decisions to which the Appellants had objection rights. 
Sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the Gaming Machine Tax Act 2001 (NSW) (the GMT Act) are relevant and provide as follows:
Certain provisions of the Taxation Administration Act 1996 (NSW) (the TAA) are also relevant.
The expression "tax default" is defined in s 3 of the TAA to be:
The GMT Act is a taxation law (s 4 TAA).
Whilst the GMT Act is a taxation law, it does not provide the mechanism for making assessments. Assessments are the province of the TAA. The TAA relevantly provides:
No notice of assessment was issued in this case. 
Putting the foregoing provisions together for the purposes of this appeal, the following emerges (references are to the GMT Act unless otherwise specified). Tax is "payable", by the hotelier, on profits from gaming machines (ss 6(1), (2)) within 21 days after the end of each quarter (s 7(1), (2)). In the case of hoteliers, the person liable for the quarterly tax instalment is the person who is the hotelier at the time the instalment is "due" (s 7(4)). In the event of a tax default, the hotelier and any person directly interested in the hotel business or profits at the time it became due, are jointly and severally liable to pay the amount concerned (s 6(3)). 
Pursuant to s 8, hoteliers are required (if notice is published in the Gazette) to lodge a return with the CMS licensee (CMS means centralised monitoring system and a CMS licence is granted pursuant to the Gaming Machines Act 2001 (NSW) (GM Act) Part 9 (the CMS licensee)). On receipt of the return, the CMS licensee must calculate the amount of each quarterly tax instalment payable and advise the Respondent (s 9(1)) and the hotelier. In certain cases, the CMS licensee may recalculate the amount payable. The Respondent is to assess or reassess according to the calculations made under s 9 (s 9(3)). 
Curiously, there is no requirement for hoteliers to file returns and gaming machines are now required to be connected to the CMS licensee (s 133 of the GM Act). This was the subject of evidence, which we discuss below. Suffice to say that the CMS licensee calculates the amount payable from direct feeds from the machines and notifies the hotelier and the Respondent of the amount payable. The Respondent uses this information and not the returns to assess or reassess. The GMT Act does not require the Respondent to issue a notice of assessment. The TAA does not require the issuing of a notice of assessment, unless this is requested by the taxpayer (s 14 TAA). 
At the end of a tax year adjustments may be necessary to take account of differences in tax liability for the whole tax year as compared to the amounts paid in respect of tax quarters (s 10). Differences may arise as a result of the application of progressive rates in ss 12 and 13. 
Inequities may arise from the fact that liability for the entire quarter rests on the hotelier or person interested in the profits on the due date: for instance the hotelier may change throughout the period. To counter this, s 11 provides that the Respondent may apportion liability as appropriate. However, this is subject to s 7(4) (see s 11(2)). This provision was the subject of scrutiny in Papacostas v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue  [2006] NSWADT 57 where it was held at [18] and [25] that the quarterly liability could not be apportioned; only the annual liability was subject to apportionment (we return to this below).
The provisions focus attention on two important questions: when is the due date and who was the hotelier at that time? The due date is to be gleaned from the provisions of the GMT Act extracted above. Hotelier is defined in the GMT Act (s 3) to have the same meaning as in the Liquor Act 2007 (NSW) (the Liquor Act). The Liquor Act (at s 4) defines hotelier to be the holder of a hotel licence. Licence is defined to mean a licence under the Liquor Act and licensee means the holder of a licence. 
The First Instance Decision was premised on the basis that on the 21st day after the end of the quarter (but not at the end of the quarter) the Appellants were the deemed holders of the hotel licence (at [5] of the First Instance Decision). Notwithstanding that the Objection accepted that the Appellants were the licensees from 2 January to 29 January 2012 ([21] and [23] of the Objection) that proposition was disputed before the Appeal Panel. Accordingly, it is relevant to look further into the Liquor Act. Section 61 of the Liquor Act deems, in certain circumstances, the owner of the licensed premises to be the holder of a hotel licence. 
Section 61 of the Liquor Act relevantly provides as follows:
The facts were summarised by the Tribunal and apprehended to be "not in dispute" at [2] to [6] as follows:
As mentioned, the First Instance Decision was premised on the basis that it was agreed that the Appellants were hoteliers on the 21st day, but not at the end of the quarter. Contrary to what is set out at [3] of the First Instance Decision, the Appellants contend that they did not begin to trade from the premises, at any time. The Appellants own the freehold, but contend that the business operator is AJS Hotel Management Pty Ltd and not, as set out at [5], AJ Holdings Pty Limited. The Respondent contends that this is of no moment; because of the operation of s 61 of the Liquor Act, the Appellants are the deemed licence holders. We will return to this below.
At first instance, the primary issue was whether the tax liability arose at the end of the quarter or on the 21st day. The Tribunal concluded (at [53]) that the due date for liability was the 21st day; and on the basis that it was thought undisputed that the then Applicants were, on that date, the deemed licensees (at [5]), the Tribunal affirmed their liability to tax at [55].
The primary reason for the Tribunal's conclusion was that the expression "due" was a reference to a single date rather than a range of dates or a period (at [44] to [49]). This accorded with the purpose of the section, which was to identify with certainty the person liable to pay the tax. Having determined that the expression "due" related to a single date and not a range, the Tribunal considered it was therefore unlikely that the expression "due" had its ordinary meaning of simply "owing" and must mean "payable" or "due and payable" (at [51]). At [50] the Tribunal acknowledged that Parliament's intention may have been better expressed in s 7(4) by using the word "payable" (rather than "due") but nevertheless determined, having regard to the fact it was a reference to a single date, that "due" in s 7(4) meant "payable". This was held to be consistent with the use of the word "due" in s 6(3) at [51]. As a taxpayer had until the 21st day to make payments the tax could not be due and payable until that day and accordingly, the due date was the 21st day (at [51] and [52]).
Two subsidiary questions were considered. First, whether the then Applicants were entitled to apportionment of their liability, pursuant to s 11 of the GMT Act; and secondly whether, if they were not primarily liable, whether liability arose because of their interest in the hotel business, under s 6(3)(b) of the GMT Act.
As to the first subsidiary question, the Tribunal concluded that there was no power to review any decision not to apportion, as it had not been the subject of an objection (at [12]); and recommended the Commissioner consider afresh the apportionment application (at [13]). The second question was not determined because the Tribunal held that the then Applicants were primarily liable as licensees (at [54]) and it was therefore not necessary to consider if they were otherwise interested in the hotel business. 
An anterior question was also touched upon: whether the Decisions fell within the Tribunal's jurisdiction to review. The Tribunal concluded that it was common ground that there was jurisdiction to review the Decisions; and that the parties concurred (at [10]). We return to this, as it became apparent at the hearing of the Appeal, that the Appellants contended that the documents dated 1 and 4 May 2012 were not decisions reviewable in the Tribunal. 
Pursuant to s 112 of the former Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW) (the ADT Act) an appellant may appeal to the Appeal Panel on questions of law. By s 113(2)(b) of the ADT Act the Appeal Panel may grant leave to extend the appeal to the merits. These provisions are still relevant notwithstanding the abolishment of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (ADT). Schedule 1, clause 7 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act) relevantly provides that unheard proceedings from the now abolished ADT are taken to have been duly commenced in the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NCAT). By clause 7(3)(b) of Schedule 1 of the NCAT Act, the provisions of the ADT Act that would have applied in respect of the proceedings had the NCAT Act and relevant amending Acts not been enacted, continue to apply.
The Notice of Appeal is expressly limited to questions of law. However, it was apparent from the Appellants' submissions at the hearing that the Appellants were also seeking leave to extend the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision.
Whilst the Notice of Appeal did not specify grounds, the Appellants' Submissions summarised the Appellants' position as follows:
In conclusion the Appellants' submit that they;
The first paragraph of the Appellants' summary can be split into two questions. The first is the substantive question between the parties: whether "the time the instalment is due" within s 7(4) of the GMT Act is the end of the quarter or the 21st day. This raises a statutory construction question. The Respondent accepted that this raised a question of law and we agree: Lombard Farms Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue  [2013] NSWADTAP 42 at  [23].
A second question within the first paragraph is whether the Appellants were hoteliers as contemplated by s 7 of the GMT Act, at the time the liability for the instalment quarter became due. This may or may not raise a question of law depending upon the basis for the contention. For instance, if the question is whether there was any evidence capable of supporting the proposition, or it relates to the construction of the deeming provision, there will be a question of law. On the other hand, if there is a mere factual dispute, this will not raise a question of law. In any event, if the issue was capable of affecting the outcome, the Appeal Panel would consider granting leave to extend the appeal to the merits: Bilquip Pty Ltd, Illmat Pty Ltd, Holibass Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (NSW)  [2013] NSWADTAP 36 at  [39]. 
The question identified in the second paragraph of the Appellants' summary is whether the letters of 1 and 4 May 2012 (the subject of the Objections) were reviewable decisions. This raises a question of law; more particularly it raises a question of jurisdiction.
The third and fourth paragraphs of the Appellants' summary relate to whether the Tribunal, at first instance, ought to have followed Papacostas. This is tied up with the first question. 
Whilst not set out in the summary, two further questions arose on the appeal. First, whether the Appellant was entitled to the exercise of the Respondent's discretion to apportion the tax. This is a question of construction of s 11(2) of the GMT Act and is a question of law: Lombard Farms at [23]. The Respondent did not suggest that this did not involve a question of law, but submitted that if we found they were so entitled, that it would be appropriate to remit that issue to the Respondent.
Secondly, the Respondent advanced a contention that in the event we accepted that the liability was due on the 21st day, that the Appellants were nonetheless liable to the tax as interested persons under s 6(3)(b) of the GMT Act. As this was a matter ventilated before the Tribunal at first instance, but not determined at first instance, the Respondent submitted it should be remitted to the Tribunal (as originally or similarly constituted) for determination. 
The Appeal Panel had the following materials from the Appellants:
There was also some evidentiary material:
The Respondent also relied on further evidentiary material:
Each party objected to the other party's additional evidence, on the basis of relevance. However, there was no objection to the Appeal Panel receiving the evidence subject to relevance. Mr Fabits and Mr Morrison were both cross-examined. 
Turning first to the jurisdictional issue. A taxpayer may apply to the Tribunal to review a decision that has been the subject of an objection and objection decision (ss 86, 91 and 96 TAA). Decisions to which taxpayers have objection rights are assessments and decisions as defined in s 6 of the ADT Act (now s 5 of the NCAT Act): see s 86 of the TAA. Decisions include making a determination (s 6(1)(a) ADT Act) and a demand (s 6(1)(e) ADT Act). 
The definition of "decision" includes a decision made in the exercise (or purported) exercise of power under the enactment, including a decision made beyond the power of the decision-maker: ss 6(2) and (3) of the ADT Act. This means that even if the Decisions were made beyond power, the Tribunal would have jurisdiction to review the decision. In Collector of Customs (NSW) v Brian Lawlor Automotive Pty Ltd [1979] FCA 21;  (1979) 2 ALD 1 the similar definition of "decision" found in s 3(3) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth), was considered. It was held that a "decision" referred to a decision in fact made, in purported exercise of powers under the enactment, irrespective of whether it was legally effective: at 4 and 7 per Bowen CJ. It mattered not, so long as the decision was made in the course of government administration, whether it was authorised or whether it was incapable of affecting legal rights: at 23 per Smithers J. 
Despite the Appellants being the moving parties at first instance, the Appellants contended that the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to review the Decisions. The Respondent, on the other hand, did not so contend and provided submissions in support of the Decisions being reviewable. 
In summary, the Appellants submitted as follows:
The Tribunal, at first instance, apprehended the parties to be in agreement that the Decisions were reviewable (at [10] of the First Instance Decision). As the Appellants' first submission demonstrates, this, if it was the case, is no longer the case. In any event, as the parties cannot consent to jurisdiction where none exists, it is necessary for the Appeal Panel to resolve this issue: Commissioner of Taxes v Tangentyere Council Inc  (1992) 2 NTLR 76.
Paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 8 concern the absence of a notice of assessment. As the legislation extracted above demonstrates, there is no requirement (unless there has been a timely request by a taxpayer) for a notice of assessment to be issued: it is not a precursor to liability. Even if this is incorrect, s 6(2) of the ADT Act would preserve the Tribunal's jurisdiction over a "purported" decision (including one made without power).
Paragraph 6 concerns errors on the face of the Decisions. If decisions were in fact made, then errors in the notice will not undermine an applicant's right to seek review of the underlying decision in the Tribunal.
Paragraph 7 concerns an issue that arises on the substantive appeal and is dealt with below in that context. 
Regarding paragraph 9, the Respondent did not and could not contend that these proceedings constituted proceedings for a criminal offence. 
That leaves paragraph 2. Section 93 of the TAA refers to notice being given of reasons for the objection decision. It does not refer to reasons being given for the underlying decision. That is covered by s 58 of the ADT Act. In tax cases, s 58 of the ADT Act is modified by s 96(4) of the TAA which, in turn, refers back to s 93 of the TAA. In this case there was an objection decision. It was dated 3 September 2012 and is found at Tab 35 of the s 58 documents. Accordingly, this submission does not assist the Appellants' contention.
Nothing raised by the Appellants warrants the conclusion that the Decisions were not decisions (or notice of decisions) reviewable by the Tribunal. 
The Respondent contended, in oral argument, that the Decisions constituted demands or determinations as contemplated by s 6 of the ADT Act. In written submissions, the Respondent focussed upon the Decisions being decisions within ordinary parlance and notices that the Respondent had made determinations, on 19 April 2012, that the Appellants were, at the end of the quarter, owners of the hotel licence for the purposes of the GMT Act and therefore liable to tax. The Respondent highlighted that the definition of "decision" in the ADT Act does not require there to be a decision of an administrative or legal character or carry legal consequences; and in any event, the Decisions carried legal consequences in that if the Appellants did not pay the instalment, action to recover it could be taken. 
The Respondent, in written submissions, clarified his position that the documents dated 4 and 1 May 2012 were not the decisions themselves, but rather notices of the decisions. 
Whether a decision is a "decision" as contemplated by s 6 of the ADT Act must be viewed in context of the enactment(s) under which the decision was purported to have been made. Relevantly, only decisions to which objections can be taken are reviewable by the Tribunal (ss 86, 91 and 96 of the TAA). 
In this case the Appellants purported to object to the Decisions and the Respondent treated the objections as having been duly made and determined them. However, as Tangentyere exemplifies, this does not necessitate the conclusion that the Tribunal has jurisdiction. In that case, the Commissioner had purported to revoke a determination that the taxpayers were a public benevolent institution. The taxpayers purported to object and the Commissioner disallowed the objection. The matter proceeded to be determined by the court at first instance, as if an appeal had been properly instituted. However, the Court of Appeal of the Northern Territory noted that the purported determination to revoke public benevolent status, could not affect pay-roll tax liability. The ability to affect liability was a prerequisite to enlivening objection rights. As there was no right to object, the court had no jurisdiction to determine an appeal from the purported objection determination. Here the prerequisites are different, but the cautionary tale is nonetheless relevant. 
As noted by the Court of Appeal in Chief Commissioner of State Revenue v Print National Pty Ltd  (2013) 83 NSWLR 555 at [32] "there are three prerequisites to the entitlement to lodge an objection" (s 86 TAA). These are: 
A "taxpayer" (defined in s 3(1) TAA) includes a person who is liable or may be liable to pay tax. The Appellants are taxpayers. 
The definition of "decision" is broad and was described by the Court of Appeal in Print National (at [36]) as having the intent "that wide-ranging decisions were open to review". The opportunity for review was not limited to decisions of substantive rather than administrative effect (at [38]). In Australian Council of Social Services Inc v Commissioner of Pay-Roll Tax (NSW) 82 ATC 4385 Rath J held that a decision to recover pay-roll tax from the plaintiff was not a reviewable decision, even though there was a decision to recover tax from the plaintiff. The decision was not reviewable for the reason that the Act there in question required there to be a decision which affected pay-roll tax liability. The decision to recover pay-roll tax, whilst being a decision in fact, did not affect liability to tax, as the plaintiff's liability arose by operation of statute and not by any discretion or decision-making by the Commissioner. 
Here, the decision in fact made is similar to the one under consideration by Rath J. On 19 April 2012, the Respondent decided that each of the Appellants were liable for the tax. These are decisions in fact. They are decisions within ordinary parlance and decisions as contemplated by s 6 of the ADT Act. 
Nevertheless, the parallels end there. Here, there is no prerequisite, as there was in Tangentyere or Australian Council of Social Services that the decision affect liability. By the letters of 1 and 4 May, the Appellants were notified of liabilities under the GMT Act and advised that if payment was not made by the date shown on the accompanying notice, recovery action would be commenced. It is apparent that the letters do not constitute assessments for tax. They could not, in recovery proceedings, be relied upon as conclusive evidence of the existence and amount of the liability, as would be the case with a notice of assessment due to s 119 of the TAA. However, this does not deprive the decisions, notified in the letters, from the character of decisions as contemplated by s 6 of the ADT Act. The letters constitute notice of decisions in fact made. 
Finally, the taxpayer must be dissatisfied with the decision. "Dissatisfied" does not have a limited meaning (Print National at [38]) and means simply "displeased" (at [34]). In Print National it was held that the taxpayer was dissatisfied with the decision there under consideration (to issue compulsory information requests) because it threatened findings of fact that would render the taxpayer liable to pay-roll tax (at [34]). 
In this case the Decisions give notice of the Respondent's view that the Appellants are liable for the tax. The determinations are not determinations in the sense of the exercise of any discretion by the Respondent, as the liability arises by the operation of the GMT Act in the circumstances outlined in ss 6 and 7 of that Act. Here, the so called determinations consist of findings of fact that render, in the Respondent's view, the Appellants liable to tax. Here, the taxpayers (the Appellants) were displeased because the Commissioner had threatened recovery action if taxes were not paid. The Appellants were dissatisfied.
Accordingly, objection rights existed. The Appellants duly objected and the Respondent duly determined the Objection. On the Objection Determination being made, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to review the underlying decision, that the Respondent considered that the Appellants were liable for tax, was enlivened. This is so even though the Decisions are not assessments and irrespective of whether the Decisions have legal effect. 
Despite this conclusion, there must be some practical or legal effect flowing from the decisions in question and there must be some order that the Tribunal could make that could affect the parties, or proceedings in the Tribunal would be futile and might be dismissed as being misconceived or lacking in substance: s 73(5)(g) of the ADT Act. The Tribunal has no power to give declaratory relief and accordingly cannot declare that the Appellants either are or are not liable to the tax. The Tribunal at first instance and the Appeal Panel (if leave to appeal on merits granted) may affirm, vary or substitute any decision or remit the matter to the Respondent to determine in accordance with its findings, directions or recommendations (ss 63, 115 ADT Act and s 101 TAA). Here, the Decisions involved the Respondent forming the conclusion that the Appellants were liable to quarterly tax and gave the Appellants notice of that liability and foreshadowed recovery action if not paid. There is some utility in considering those Decisions afresh and coming to the correct and preferable decision about them. The Tribunal and Appeal Panel had the benefit of material not before the original decision-maker.
The Appellants could have invoked s 14 of the TAA and required the Respondent to issue a notice of assessment. In such circumstances there would have been no question that the Appellants had rights to object and if disallowed approach the Tribunal. The fact that that path existed and was not travelled does not necessitate the conclusion that the Decisions were not reviewable. 
We are satisfied that the Decisions give notice to the Appellants of decisions as contemplated by s 6 of the ADT Act; and as there has been an Objection and Objection Decision, the Tribunal had jurisdiction to review the decisions. 
The parties' submissions on when instalment due
Returning now to the substantive question: when is the instalment due? 
The Appellants contended that the instalment amount became due at the end of the quarter. First, the Appellants relied on the decision of Senior Member Block in Papacostas where it was said at [9] and [16] as follows:
Further, the Appellants emphasised that it was only after fully understanding the industry that one could interpret the legislation. Seen in context (by that they meant in practice) "due" in s 7(4) must mean at the end of the quarter. This was primarily for the reason that in order to be able to contest the figures calculated by the CMS licensee, a person would need access to the gaming machine at the end of the quarter. Liability must coincide with possession of the machine at the end of the quarter. If liability was predicated on possession at a later date, it would make contesting the figures impossible, where there was a change of hotelier after the close of the quarter. 
The Appellants contended that it was consonant with the reporting requirements and the mechanism for objecting to the CMS licensee's calculations of liability, that the due date should be the end of the quarter. It was only in the event the hotelier had access to the gaming machine at the end of the quarter that the CMS licensee's figures could, in a practical sense, be challenged. The evidence of each of Mr Morrison called by the Appellants and Mr Fabits called by the Respondent, was relevant to this issue. 
Further, the Appellants relied on Gordon Edgell & Sons v Federal Commissioner of Taxation  (1949) 9 ATD 43. That decision, insofar as it suggested tax was not due until it was assessed, was not endorsed in Clyne v Deputy Commissioner of Taxation [1981] HCA 40;  (1981) 150 CLR 1 (at 16 per Mason J; Aickin and Wilson JJ agreeing) and is inconsistent with Bluebottle UK Ltd v Deputy Commissioner of Taxation [2007] HCA 54;  (2007) 232 CLR 598. Nevertheless, the case demonstrates the point that until liability has been incurred, or is due (in the simple sense of owing) then, any payment of it is an advance on authority that the Respondent will use the money to satisfy the tax that ultimately comes due. It is not a payment of an existing liability. 
On the other hand, the Respondent contended that the structure of the GMT Act supported a construction that the 21st day was the day the liability was due. It was contended that "due" must, in this context, mean "due and payable". Here, s 7 created the liability and made it at once due and payable 21 days after the end of the quarter. The legislation could be distinguished from Commonwealth tax legislation where liability arose under the relevant Act, but the requirement for payment was predicated on the issue of an assessment. Here, liability did not depend upon the issuing of an assessment and neither did the requirement for payment. 
Further, the Respondent contended that the amount must be due and immediately payable on the 21st day, as it is only from that date that interest on unpaid amounts accrued (s 21(1) TAA); and it is only after the end of the 21st day period that the Respondent could sue to recover the amount as a debt (s 44 TAA).
The Respondent contended that the remarks of Senior Member Block in Papacostas, in relation to the expression "due" were in passing, as the question of construction of the word "due" in s 7 was not a live question in Papacostas: the remarks were obiter dicta only. The facts were also distinguishable, as in that case there was no change of licensee after the close of the quarter.
The Respondent acknowledged the use of the expression "due" as opposed to "payable" in various subsections of s 7 and contended that the different expressions were used to highlight the following: "payable" in sub-s 7(2) indicated a permission to pay within a period (i.e., capable of being paid); whereas "due" in sub-s 7(4) identified a single point in time (the 21st day) in order to fix with certainty the identity of the person with the liability. A similar use of a fixed point in time is used in sub-s 6(3)(b) to identify the person who may be liable under that section. In other words, "payable" was used in a permissive sense, but "due" was a command used to fix liability.
Mr Morrison is an Accountant and Director of Hotel Accountants of NSW Pty Ltd. He is a specialist in the hotel/pub industry. His evidence was to the effect that as part of normal hotel accounting services he calculates the gaming tax for each quarter based on records from the gaming machines and from the CMS licensee, for commercial purposes. He notes that the quarterly gaming liability can be accurately determined the day after each quarter, generally by logging into the CMS, but can be taken from the machines. As the machines operate on a real time basis, it would be necessary to take readings at the end of the quarter. Occasionally, the CMS licensees' figures are wrong and may be challenged by the hotelier. 
Mr Fabits is the Gaming Systems Team Leader at the Independent Liquor and Gaming Administration formerly known as the Casino, Liquor and Gaming Control Authority. He caused a search of all New South Wales Government Gazettes and confirmed that despite s 8 of the GMT Act, no notice was ever published requiring a hotelier to provide a return to the CMS licensee. He also confirmed that all gaming machines are now required to be linked directly to the CMS licensee and the machine automatically transfers information about its performance. At the end of each quarter the CMS licensee calculates the quarterly instalments of gaming machine tax and generally, on about the 14th day after the end of the quarter, sends to the hotelier a performance statement and invoice. That information is also sent to the Respondent. Mr Fabits agreed that if data was to be taken from the gaming machine itself, it would need to be done on the relevant day, as the machines update with usage. 
The evidence was not ultimately contentious and we accept the evidence. 
In summary, there is no requirement to lodge returns and the CMS licensee calculates the liability from direct feeds from all gaming machines. It is possible to obtain data from the machines themselves, however, in order for that to occur somebody must actually physically look at the machine at the relevant time. The mechanism differed depending upon whether it was an old machine or a new machine. In any event, if the machine is not scrutinised at the end of the last day of the quarter then as soon as the machine is used again, the information will change because the machine will have started to record the new usage. 
Occasionally there will be a glitch and the CMS licensee may get the calculations wrong. In that case in order to challenge the CMS calculations, it would assist the hotelier to have had recourse to the gaming machines at the end of the last day of the quarter, so that figures could be provided to the CMS licensee, from the actual machine.
The Appellants sought to rely on the evidence primarily to support the contention that the due date, or the date on which liability is fixed, must be a day when the person liable is in possession of the premises. This is necessary so that they can read the figures from the gaming machines themselves, in case it ultimately becomes necessary to challenge the data and calculations from the CMS licensee. Put another way, for the reason that the gaming machines are recording on a real time system, the Appellants' submission was that if you couldn't be there to read the machine, it couldn't be your liability.
The Respondent on the other hand submitted that the ability to take a read from the machine could not affect the construction issue; and in any event discrepancies with the CMS licensee would be very rare. 
Ultimately, it is imperative that entities in the hotel or club industries know where the liability for gaming machines tax lies. This is particularly important where businesses operated on the licensed premises change hands. It is made more important where apportionment of liability to reflect commercial reality, rests on a discretion of the Respondent which may be constrained by s 11(2) of the GMT Act (i.e., not available in relation to quarterly instalments, a matter to which we return below). 
The two competing submissions can be summarised as follows. The Respondent contends that "due" must mean "due and immediately payable". On the other hand, the Appellants contend that "due" means "owing but not yet payable". The Tribunal, at first instance noted at [31] that this type of question had been "famously" considered in the decision of Clyne. In that case the High Court concluded that "due" can and does have different meanings depending on its context: at 8. In tax legislation, it may mean due in the sense of simply owing or it may mean owing and payable. This analysis was confirmed in Bluebottle at [80]-[81]. 
We must construe the relevant words in their context. The legislation in question in Clyne's case and in Bluebottle is very different to the legislation here under consideration. Importantly, liability for gaming machines tax (and we include here liability to make payment) does not depend upon a notice of an assessment. The GMT Act both levies the tax and identifies the date for payment. Nevertheless, it is highly significant that s 7 uses the words "payable" and "due" in different subsections. We must give the deliberate choice of the use of those two words some meaning. 
The Respondent has submitted that the choice of different words comes from the different senses in which the words are used. "Payable" is used in the permissive sense and "due" is used in the ultimate and final sense. We are not persuaded by that submission for a number of reasons. First, the Act could have with clarity referred in s 7(4) to the last day for "payment" of the instalment, instead of "the time the instalment is due": s 7(4). Secondly, and more definitively, in ss 6(1) and (2) there is a reference to "payable" but it is not used in any permissive sense. It is levying the tax. The tax is payable on profits (s 6(1)) and the tax is payable by the hotelier (s 6(2)). Those sub-sections levy the tax: there is nothing permissive about them. Thirdly, the Act separates out the period of liability (for the quarter) from the time for payment, the 21st day. 
The Act requires certainty. Both arguments provide certainty. Either the instalment is due at the end of the quarter, or it is due on the 21st day. In either case it is a single date and will provide the requisite certainty. 
As the liability is in respect of profits for the quarter, there is symmetry if liability falls on the hotelier at the end of the quarter (subject to apportionment in accordance with s 11). This is reflected in the Appellants' submission that it is only a person in possession of the hotel that would be in a position to effectively challenge the figures provided by the CMS licensee. Nevertheless, whilst acknowledging that this supports the Appellants' argument, we find it to be of very little weight especially since, under s 6(3)(b) a person interested in the hotel business, but not necessarily with access to the machines, may be liable for the tax. 
Also, there is some support for the Appellants' construction that, on the Respondent's view, a payment on day 20 would be an advance and not a payment in discharge of an existing liability. In other words, if the Respondent is correct and the tax is not due until the 21st day, any payment before the 21st day is an advance and is not the satisfaction of a liability that is due. Whilst there is no prohibition on prepayment of a liability, the fact that the liability is made payable "within" 21 days after the end of each instalment quarter (s 7(2) GMT Act) supports a construction that the liability arises, or becomes due before the commencement of the payment period.
Whilst we acknowledge arguments can be put each way, ultimately, we are persuaded that there must be some different meaning given to the words "due" and "payable" and we are not satisfied that the deliberate choice of words was simply because "payable" is the permissive use of the word "due". 
We are accordingly satisfied that the time the instalment is due is the end of the quarter and it is payable anytime up to and including the 21st day after the close of the quarter. There is accordingly error of law in the Tribunal's First Instance Decision. 
The proceedings below were determined on the basis that the Appellants were the hoteliers (or deemed hoteliers) from the 2nd or 4th of January 2012 ([3] to [5] of the First Instance Decision). The Respondent maintained his contention that the Appellants were hoteliers from the period of the 4th of January or possibly 2 January to 29 January 2012 (i.e., at the 21st day, but not at the end of the quarter): at [9], [12] and [30] of his Submissions filed 5 February 2014. The Appellants contend that that is not possible and relied on the evidence of Patricia Sidgreaves and Anthony Sidgreaves. The Appellants are the registered proprietors of the freehold, but the hotel business is conducted by AJS Hotel Management Pty Ltd, which commenced operating on 4 January 2012, after eviction of the earlier licensee on 2 January 2012. The witnesses were not cross-examined and the material was admitted subject to relevance. The Respondent contends that the evidence goes nowhere because s 61 of the Liquor Act deems the Appellants to be the relevant hotelier. That section provides that the registered proprietor of the licensed premises is deemed to be the licensee in circumstances where they come into or are entitled to possession of the premises. 
Because we have determined that the liability falls due at the end of the quarter, it is of no moment that the Appellants may have been the deemed licensees on the 21st day. Accordingly, it is not necessary to answer the question whether the Appellants were deemed hoteliers on the 21st day. Furthermore, as it is not necessary to determine whether the Appellants were hoteliers on the 21st day, it is not necessary to consider whether leave to appeal on the merits is necessary in order to answer the second question in the first paragraph of the Appellants' summary.
As set out above, s 6(3)(b) of the GMT Act levies tax on persons interested in the hotel business at the relevant date (which we have concluded is the end of the quarter). 
The Statutory Declarations that we have referred to above purport to disavow any interest of the Appellants in the hotel business during the relevant quarter. Whilst witnesses were not cross-examined this is an issue that was ventilated before the Tribunal, at first instance. The Respondent has asked that if it becomes relevant, it should be remitted to the Tribunal (as originally or similarly constituted) to determine. 
As we have concluded that there is an error of law in the First Instance Decision and for reasons that this question may require further evidence and an opportunity for further submissions, we have decided to remit this question to the Tribunal similarly constituted: s 114(2)(b) of the ADT Act. As there will be a need for evidence beyond that before the Tribunal originally constituted we do not see it necessary to remit to the original decision maker. 
Pursuant to s 11 of the GMT Act the Respondent has a discretion to apportion liability. However, that is subject to s 7(4) of the GMT Act which provides that the quarterly tax is to be paid by the hotelier who holds (or is deemed to hold) the hotel licence on the due date. The Respondent contends s 11(1)(a) cannot be invoked to release the hotelier on the due date from liability to pay the quarterly instalment.
In Papacostas at [18] and [25] it was held that s 11(2) of the GMT Act precludes apportionment, in respect of the quarterly tax of the hotelier primarily liable for the tax. Senior Member Block considered that that was the inescapable conclusion from the clear words of s 11(2). He also considered whether that construction would leave no work for s 11(1)(a) to do and accepted the Respondent's submission that s 11(1)(a) had work to do because it could be used to apportion the tax so as to recover a part from a hotelier who is not responsible under s 7(4) but was nonetheless a hotelier during the relevant period. In other words, whilst the hotelier on the due date remains primarily liable under s 7(4), the Respondent could, by apportionment, make liable another hotelier under s 11(1)(a). We are not entirely satisfied with that explanation, for the reason that it seems to envisage joint and several liability over a part of the liability, whereas the natural meaning of the word "apportionment" is that liability be split between taxpayers, not shared. Also, it envisages the Respondent levying or collecting tax other than in accordance with s 6 of the GMT Act.
At the hearing of the Appeal, the Respondent submitted that there was work for s 11(1)(a) to do, notwithstanding s 7(4), in respect of the annual liability calculated in accordance with s 10 of the GMT Act. However, the calculation under s 10 appears to relate to adjustments only.
Nevertheless, s 11(2) is in clear terms which appear to preclude release from the quarterly liability, for the person who is the hotelier on the due date. Ultimately, we do not need to decide whether that is the correct construction, as we have found that the Appellants were not the hoteliers at the due date. Accordingly, the qualification in s 11(2) is not engaged in relation to them.
The Tribunal in the First Instance Decision at [12] considered itself not seized of the question of whether or not there should be an apportionment, as there was no objection decision to enliven the jurisdiction of the Tribunal (s 96 of the TAA). However, it is apparent that there was an oral request made to the Respondent to apportion the tax. By phone call and email of 7 May 2012, this request was denied (Tab 23, s 58 documents). In the Objection (Tab 26, s 58 documents) a request was again made for the Commissioner to exercise his discretion to apportion the tax. This request was denied in the Objection Decision (Tab 35, s 58 documents). It is plain from the Objection Determination Report (Tab 36, s 58 documents) that the request for apportionment was treated as an objection to the decision not to apportion (expressed on 7 May and implied in letters of 1 and 4 May). The Respondent disallowed that objection. Accordingly, in our view there was a reviewable decision before the Tribunal with respect to whether to apportion the quarterly tax.
In any event, as is apparent from Chief Commissioner of State Revenue v Paspaley  [2008] NSWCA 184, the subject matter of the Tribunal's proceeding is the underlying decision. In this case, the underlying decision is the determination (in the loose sense described above) that the Appellants are liable to the full amount of the tax for the quarter. A Tribunal must decide whether that decision is the correct and preferable decision. It is open to argument that it would not be the correct and preferable decision to affirm a determination as to liability for the whole amount if apportionment was available. We are cognisant of the decision of White J in Metricon Qld Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue  [2013] NSWSC 982 at  [27] and [28] that in the case of a reassessment of an assessment already the subject of a review, a taxpayer may waive his objection rights to have the underlying decision determined on grounds relating to both the assessment and the reassessment. See too Commissioner of Taxation v ANZ Savings Bank [1994] HCA 58;  (1994) 181 CLR 466, that in Commonwealth tax appeals, the Court is seized of the entirety of the decision (at 476). Here, the underlying decision concerns the Respondent's view of liability to tax. Whether the taxpayers are entitled to apportionment affects that issue and could be ventilated before the Tribunal. 
We did not receive submissions on whether, in the event it is ultimately held that the Appellants are liable to pay tax under s 6(3)(b) of the GMT Act, s 11(1)(a) could be engaged. It refers expressly to apportioning the tax between various hoteliers and not interested persons. It may be open to argument that read in context "hotelier" includes interested persons under s 6(3)(b). This question may never arise. Nevertheless, we leave the question of apportionment to any liability under s 6(3)(b) to the Tribunal on remittal. 
Primarily for the reason that the GMT Act uses, in ss 6 and 7, both the word "due" and the word "payable", we are satisfied that "due" must be given a meaning distinct from "payable". We are satisfied it has the meaning of simply owing. Liability to the tax arises, in the sense that it is owing but not yet payable, at the end of the quarter and it becomes payable thereafter. The last date for payment is the 21st day. As the parties approached the appeal on the basis that the Appellants were not liable under s 6(3)(a) of the GMT Act if we so concluded, we conclude that the Appellants were not liable under s 6(3)(a). Whether they were liable under s 6(3)(b) of the GMT Act and whether it is appropriate to apportion such liability, is a matter to be determined on remittal. 
############# I'm default separator ##########40
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - 'reasonableopportunity to be heard' - procedural fairness - functionalilliteracy
This matter comprises:
As the appellant succeeded on the first and second matters, it was not necessary to decide the third. (Although Mr Steven Kline is variously an applicant and an appellant, it is convenient to refer to him throughout these reasons as 'the appellant'.)
On 24 July 2014, shortly after the conclusion of the oral hearing, the Tribunal announced the orders in this matter and advised that reasons would follow. These are those reasons.
This matter requires consideration of two statutes, namely the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) ('the Act') and the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) ('the RT Act').
Section 38(2) of the Act states: The Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence and may inquire into and inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks fit, subject to the rules of natural justice. [emphasis added]
Section 38(5)(c) of the Act states: The Tribunal is to take such measures as are reasonably practicable... to ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings.
Breach of the requirement 'to be heard' under the Act or the common law, may amount to an error of law, which may be remedied by the Tribunal in at least two ways that are relevant for the purpose of the present matter. First, where the decision was an 'internally appealable decision', there may be an appeal on a question of law under s 80 of the Act, to be determined in accordance with s 81 of the Act.
Those provisions state: 80 Making of internal appeals (1) An appeal against an internally appealable decision may be made to an Appeal Panel by a party to the proceedings in which the decision is made. Note. Internal appeals are required to be heard by the Tribunal constituted as an Appeal Panel. See section 27(1). (2) Any internal appeal may be made:
Second, regulation 9 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulations 2013 (NSW) provides a further power to grant relief: Additional power to set aside or vary decision determining proceedings (1) In addition to any power that is expressly conferred on the Tribunal by the Act or enabling legislation to set aside or vary its decisions, the Tribunal may order that a decision it has made that determines proceedings be set aside or varied in either of the following circumstances:
The RT Act permits termination of a residential tenancy agreement in a number of circumstances. Section 92(1)(a) states: Tribunal may terminate residential tenancy agreement for threat, abuse, intimidation or harassment (1) The Tribunal may, on application by a landlord, make a termination order if it is satisfied that the tenant, or any person who although not a tenant is occupying or jointly occupying the residential premises, has: (a) seriously or persistently threatened or abused the landlord, the landlord's agent or any employee or contractor of the landlord or landlord's agent, or caused or permitted any such threats, abuse or conduct...
The RT Act also deals with the appointment of a tenant's agent, and the revocation of that appointment, as follows: 221 Tenants' agents (1) A tenant may appoint a person as the tenant's agent for the purpose of receiving notices or documents given under the residential tenancy agreement or this Act or the regulations. (2) The tenant may appoint the agent in the residential tenancy agreement or at any time during the tenancy by written notice given to the landlord or the landlord's agent. (3) An appointment may be revoked at any time by written notice given to the landlord or the landlord's agent. (4) A landlord, landlord's agent or the Tribunal (if aware of the appointment) must give to the tenant's agent any notices or other documents required to be given to the tenant under the residential tenancy agreement or this Act or the regulations. (5) Any such notice or document is taken to have been given to the tenant if it is given to the tenant's agent. [Emphasis added.]
On 22 January 2001, the respondent entered into a residential tenancy agreement with the appellant over residential premises at [XXXX] Riverstone. By s 6 of the Housing Act 2001, the respondent was established as a body corporate, and a statutory body representing the Crown.
On 7 April 2014, the respondent lodged an application with the Tribunal for orders terminating the residential tenancy agreement between the appellant and the respondent.
On 22 April 2014, the application was heard in the absence of the appellant, and orders were made granting the application and providing the respondent with immediate possession. The reasons for the decision included the following: The applicant [now the respondent] appeared at the hearing. There was no appearance by the respondent [now the appellant]. There appears on the Tribunal file a copy of a notice of hearing addressed to respondent advising of the time and location of the hearing. Having perused the Tribunal file I am satisfied that, in accordance with the Registrar's usual practices, notice of hearing of today's proceedings was posted to the respondent on 8 April 2014 and it has not been returned. I am satisfied the respondent has notice of the [sic] today's hearing. Further, I am satisfied that in the interests of justice, the matter proceed in the absence of the respondent.
On 30 April 2014, the appellant was notified of those orders, and his general practitioner, Dr Mckay, wrote to the Tribunal on the same day, in terms relevantly noted below.
On 19 May 2014, the appellant applied to set aside the decision under regulation 9(1) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation. On that same day the appellant's legal representatives also sought to lodge a notice of appeal under s 80 of the Act
In view of the terms of regulation 9(5)(a) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation, the Tribunal's registry refused to accept the notice of appeal.
However, on that date the Tribunal nevertheless made an order staying the operation of the orders for termination and possession until further order.
On 2 June 2014, the appellant filed statements by the appellant and others, and filed written submissions. On 3 June the Tribunal refused the application to set aside the decision.
On 13 June the appellant commenced the proceedings before the Appeal Panel of the Tribunal which are noted above at [1].
The application for an extension of time in which to file an appeal was not opposed by the respondent. Thus, the focus of the hearing became the appeal from the decision of 22 April 2014 ('the appeal'). As already noted, the Tribunal's decision in favour of the appellant on that appeal makes it unnecessary to decide the application for leave to appeal from the decision of the Tribunal on 3 June 2014.
On the appeal there were two grounds. The first ground was that there had been a denial of procedural fairness and/or a breach of s 38(5) of the Act. An additional ground put forward was that on 22 April the Tribunal did not address discretionary considerations under s 91 of the RT Act when deciding to terminate the residential tenancy agreement. Because we have decided to make orders for rehearing, and as there are contested matters for determination on the rehearing, it is neither necessary nor appropriate to consider that additional ground.
Before considering the first ground, it is necessary to consider certain factual matters on the appeal. The Appeal Panel received evidence in addition to the evidence before the Tribunal on 22 April, without objection from either party.
A critical factor in the determination of the appeal was the circumstance, accepted by counsel for the respondent during the hearing on 24 July 2014, that at all relevant times the appellant was, at least, 'functionally illiterate'.
Further, the Appeal Panel received a medical report from Dr Emily Mckay of the Riverstone Family Medical Practice, who was the treating doctor of the appellant, which described the appellant as an: Aboriginal gentleman with serious mental health issues, chronic health issues who requires regular medical care... he is extremely paranoid and likes to keep to himself.
In order to overcome at least the problems caused by his functional illiteracy, on 12 November 2003, the appellant signed two documents, namely: 1) a 'Consent to Exchange Information Between a Social Housing Provider and Support Workers'; and 2) a 'General Consent to Exchange Information and Authority to Act' on the appellant's behalf.
By signing these documents the appellant: (1) authorised 'Went West / Close the Gap Team' to collect, use, and exchange information, described on the form as 'all information'; and (2) authorised the Aboriginal outreach worker at Went West / Close the Gap to act on his behalf.
The second form indicated that the appellant wished this written authority to last for two years, and contained his signature under the following terms of authorisation: I authorise the person/agencies named on this form to exchange information about me and/or to act on my behalf in matters concerning a social housing provider according to the arrangements shown on this form. I know that I can change my mind and stop my consent at any time by writing or telling a social housing provider unless there is a current legal order in place.
By signing the first form, the appellant authorised support agencies to give or receive information about him from or to a social housing provider such as the respondent.
We find that: 1) these documents were delivered to the respondent; and 2) the respondent accepted an arrangement whereby Went West were to receive at least a copy if not the original of all documents addressed to the appellant.
It is the perhaps rare conjunction of these factors which is critical to the result in this matter. The evidence for so finding, which we accept, is as follows.
First, there is the statutory declaration by Mr Andrew Langley, solicitor, Legal Aid NSW, who represented the appellant, recording a conversation he had with the appellant on 29 May 2014, in which the appellant said: Housing NSW had known for years that I cannot read or write... I went to a meeting before Christmas last year with Housing. My solicitor Veselko was there along with Jamie and my care worker from Closing the Gap. I signed some forms so that letters for me were meant to go to Jamie, to re-route to me.
Second, Mr Langley's statutory declaration refers to the conversation he had with 'Veselko', namely, Mr Veselko Cuic, a solicitor at Mount Druitt and Area Community Legal Centre who, being about to travel overseas, did not make a statutory declaration for use at the hearing. Instead, he provided an email of 29 May 2014 which refers back to the notes of the November 2013 meeting between the appellant, Mr Cuic, and Housing NSW staff. Mr Cuic's recollection was that: basically it was agreed that any document [the respondent]... needed to send to Steve [i.e. the appellant] would be sent to [Went West]... and Went West were to call Steve and explain the documents to him.
Finally, there is an email from Ms Amanda Annabel, acting Team Leader, Housing Operations, Mount Druitt, of the respondent, to Ms Catherine Williams, Manager Housing Services, also of the respondent (who had a role in the application to terminate the appellant's lease), dated 21 March 2014 at 2.52pm. This stated: we are not allowed to speak to Steven [the applicant] directly, we can only contact him through his solicitor or his advocate Jamie [Ms Mitchell's predecessor] at Went West.
An issue on the appeal was whether the agency agreement remained on foot. The Respondent contended it did not and pointed to a telephone conversation on 24 March 2014 between Mr Chris Routley, client service officer, Family and Community Services, of the respondent, and Ms Jennifer Mitchell, an Aboriginal-identified case worker in the Closing the Gap team at Went West Limited.
Each created a contemporaneous record of that conversation, in Mr Routley's case, by an email sent to officers of the respondent including Ms Annabel and in Ms Mitchell's case, by an extract from her 'case profile report'. Each of Ms Mitchell and Mr Routley were called before the Appeal Panel and were cross-examined.
It was not suggested by counsel for either party that Ms Mitchell or Mr Routley were doing anything, while witnesses before us, other than honestly trying to recall what was discussed.
Ms Mitchell's case note, relevantly, states: Chris [Routley] from Housing called me and said they are looking at going to the Tribunal again to remove client [a reference to the appellant]. This is not confirmed, client has padlocked the vacant property next door and is refusing to allow trades in, including just to check smoke alarms as required by law, I told him I would like to be kept updated but could not assist them in gaining access to Steven's property. [Emphasis added.]
Ms Mitchell, in her statement stated that 'independently' of her case notes, she remembered the telephone call in question.
Mr Routley's email states: Jennifer rang from Went West this morning. She is the new outreach worker. She advises that, while Went West would like to be kept informed, they are no longer able to help Mr Kline because he has refused their offers of help and has refused services. Nevertheless, they remain approachable if we think they can help with anything. She also advised that Mt Druitt Community Legal Services are no longer acting for him. [Emphasis added.]
Ms Mitchell's written statement contains a denial, which is supported by her case note, that at any stage she said to Mr Routley that she couldn't help the appellant because he had refused services, although she did say to Mr Routley that she was unable to assist with the 'legal side' of the appellant's housing.
When asked in cross-examination why she did not raise with the appellant her conversation of 24 March with Mr Routley, Ms Mitchell said that because she understood there was then only a possibility of a hearing in the Tribunal, she decided not to worry the appellant unless it was 'definitely happening'. However, she said that had she received written confirmation of a hearing involving the appellant, she would have contacted the appellant, taken the correspondence to him, and read it to him.
Mr Routley during cross-examination was not sure he was aware Went West had been the agent for communications between the respondent and the appellant, but in any event, was not aware of any written revocation of any such authority.
We find that the conversation between Mr Routley and Ms Mitchell did not bring to an end the agency agreement mentioned above (nor, of course, alter the fact, at all relevant times accepted by the respondent, of the appellant's functional illiteracy). It is not however necessary to resolve any inconsistencies between Ms Mitchell and Mr Routley. This is for two reasons.
First, even on Mr Routley's recollection of events, Ms Mitchell was not saying that the agency arrangement had come to an end. Indeed, according to him she had said 'Went West would like to be kept informed':- that is sufficiently similar to her recollection that 'I told him I would like to be kept updated'.
Second, Went West continued to be copied in on correspondence sent by the respondent, which is consistent with the agency arrangement remaining on foot. Thus, shortly before 3 April, a letter was sent by Mr Routley to the appellant (a copy is at Exhibit 1, page 56; the date on the print-out of 27 June 2014, Mr Routley agreed, was the date it was printed out, not the date it was sent, as in any event is clear from, for example, the first paragraph of the letter). The letter advised that there would be a visit from the respondent between 10.00 and 10.30am on 7 April. At the bottom of the letter are the words 'cc: Went West / Close the Gap team'.
Finally, although we need not decide the issue, it may well be that any withdrawal of authority would need to be in writing in accordance with s 221 of theResidential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW), the terms of which appear above.
Mr Routley did indeed visit the appellant's residential premises on 7 April. In view of the fact that there is now to be a contested hearing concerning what then transpired, we make no findings about those matters beyond saying that as a result of what then occurred, the respondent decided to make an application under s 92(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act, to terminate the residential tenancy agreement.
The usual written notice of a hearing from the Tribunal addressed to the appellant at his residential address, advising of the time and location of the hearing, appears on the Tribunal file. That was posted to the appellant by the Registrar of this Tribunal on 8 April and, as the member hearing the matter on 22 April recorded, the notice had not been returned. The Tribunal heard the matter, and decided to terminate the residential tenancy agreement under s 92(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act. We have earlier set out that part of the decision dealing with the absence of the appellant.
Again, as the matter is now to be heard on a contested basis, we say nothing about whether the decision would have been correct had, for example, the appellant been present and represented. Rather, our focus is on the terms of s 38 and the common law duty of procedural fairness.
The appellant contended that the appellant was not notified of the hearing and was thus denied an opportunity to be heard either under the common law or under s 38(5). The appellant pointed to: 1) his functional illiteracy, and 2) the agency agreement between the appellant, the respondent, and Went West whereby all communications were at least to be copied to Went West by the respondent to remedy the problems caused particularly by his illiteracy.
In those circumstances, the appellant contended that the failure of the respondent itself to serve a copy of the notice of the 22 April 2014 hearing on Went West, or alternatively to advise the Tribunal of the arrangement with Went West and/or the functional illiteracy of the appellant, and for that reason to have the Tribunal arrange to serve notice on Went West, meant that there had been a breach of the hearing rule and/or s 38(5)(c).
The respondent relied essentially on two contentions in answer.
First, the respondent contended that the agency agreement had been terminated by the appellant as evidenced by the conversation between Mr Routley and Ms Mitchell on 24 March 2014.
Second, the respondent relied upon the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2013 (NSW), r 13(4) which states that: Unless the contrary is proved, the time at which a notice or document is taken to be served, given or lodged is: 1) in the case of a copy of a notice or document that is posted-at the end of the fourth working day after the date on which the notice or document was posted to the person.
The respondent pointed to the facts that: 1) a letter containing the notice had been posted directly to the appellant; 2) the Appellant had previously received letters from the Tribunal and knew what they looked like; 3) the letter in this instance was not returned; and 4) the appellant knew that a representative (Mr Routley) had been outside the premises on 7 April.
As to the first contention of the respondent, for the reasons given above, we find that the agency arrangement remained on foot. We thus reject that contention as a matter of fact.
As to the second contention of the respondent, while the respondent is correct to submit that the appellant had not proved 'the contrary' as contemplated by r 13(4), we find this to be beside the point.
Rather, the issue is whether the appellant, in the perhaps unusual circumstances of this matter, was denied an opportunity to be heard.
We have already noted the terms of ss 38(2) and (5) of the Act.
Our attention was drawn to the statement of Giles JA in Brennan v New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation; New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation v Brennan [2011] NSWCA 298;  (2011) 83 NSWLR 23 at  [63] that: ...in principle, the requirements of procedural fairness are identified as a matter of law depending upon the institutional setting in which decision-making is to operate, the relevant statutory scheme, the subject matter of the decision and, as part of that analysis, the seriousness of the potential consequences of an adverse decision.
This Tribunal stated in CKG v Public Guardian  [2014] NSWCATAP 32 at  [14]: the Tribunal is bound to accord procedural fairness ( or 'natural justice') to parties to its proceedings, and, in addition to persons whose interests, rights or legitimate expectations are affected: see, generally, Hess v Public Guardian [2005] NSWADTAP 43 at  [20] ff. The duty derives from the common law, and is reinforced by s 38(2) and (5) of the NCAT Act.
The existence of this obligation was not disputed in this matter. The issue is what was required in order to meet the obligation. What is 'a reasonable opportunity to be heard' will, of course, vary from case to case. In part that is because, as Gleeson CJ said in Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex parte Lam  [2003] HCA 6;  (2003) 214 CLR 1 at  [37]: Fairness is not an abstract concept. It is essentially practical. Whether one talks in terms of procedural fairness or natural justice, the concern of the law is to avoid practical injustice.
The appellant had a right to notice of the hearing. That notice was critical to his right to 'be heard', as notice was an essential pre-requisite to him exercising that right.
In the very particular circumstances of this matter, personal receipt of the letter containing the notice was insufficient because the appellant could not himself read with comprehension any such notice. Further he was entitled to assume that the respondent having agreed to send notices to Went West would do so and that, where necessary, WentWest would get in touch with him and relay the contents of such notices to him. We therefore uphold Ground 1.
A notice of appeal asserting denial of procedural fairness, or of the entitlement to 'a reasonable opportunity to be heard' under s 38 raises questions of law within the meaning of s 80(2)(b) of the Act.
Breach of either obligation (and here there has been breach of both) ordinarily means that there has been an erroneous decision which should, under s 81 of the Act, be set aside or quashed, with the appeal allowed, save in rare circumstances, such as where the breach would have made no difference to the outcome of the case: Stead v State Government Insurance Commission [1986] HCA 54;  (1986) 161 CLR 141 at  [28]; Warkworth Mining Limited v Bulga Milbrodale Progress Association Inc [2014] NSWCA 105 at  [40]- [44].
As the appellant clearly has substantive submissions he wishes to make on a re-hearing, as to whether s 92(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act is enlivened on the (disputed) facts of the case, or whether any discretion to terminate the lease and grant possession should be exercised, and because these matters were not dealt with in the appeal, an order for rehearing is appropriate.
For these reasons we made the orders on 24 July which appear below.
It is neither necessary nor appropriate to consider any other grounds of appeal.
We raise one further matter.
It appears that in the Tribunal below: 1)no reference was there made to the fact of the consent to exchange information; 2)nor the fact of the functional illiteracy of the appellant and the respondent's acceptance of that state of affairs; 3)nor that, until at least early April, Went West had continued to be copied in on correspondence between the respondent and the appellant, irrespective of Mr Routley's view expressed in the email of 24 March.
In addition to the effect of s 36(3) of the Act, the respondent is a statutory corporation representing the Crown, and is bound by the model litigant principle, see, eg, Mahenthirarasa v State Rail Authority (NSW) (No 2)  [2008] NSWCA 201;  (2008) 72 NSWLR 273 at  [16]- [20].
In any future similar cases (which, we accept, may be rare), the Appeal Panel would anticipate that the respondent and its representatives, to the extent that they are aware of such matters, would bring to the Tribunal's attention any agency agreements of the type involved here, any characteristics of an appellant such as functional illiteracy, which bring into serious question the likelihood that real and effective notice of a hearing has been given by service by mail of a notice of hearing and any steps taken by the respondent to give real and effective notice.
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel ordered that: Under s 41 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) the time for filing the notice of appeal be extended to 13 June 2014.
############# I'm default separator ##########41
STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION - meaning of homosexual vilification provisions inAnti-Discrimination Act 1977 (NSW) - PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE - failure ofappellant to appear at Tribunal hearing - whether opportunity should be given toadduceevidence and make submissions on appeal
In January 2013 Ms Corbett was the Katter's Australian Party's endorsed candidate for the federal seat of Wannon in Victoria. In that capacity she made some comments to journalists which were re-produced in a local newspaper and online. Mr Burns complained that the comments breached the homosexual vilification provisions of the Anti-Discrimination Act I977 (NSW). Despite being given notice of the hearing in the Administrative Decisions Tribunal, Ms Corbett did not attend. The Tribunal found that she had breached the Act and ordered that she not repeat the vilifying conduct, publish an apology in the Sydney Morning Herald and apologise directly to Mr Burns. We have dismissed Ms Corbett's appeal against that decision because the Tribunal did not make any of the legal errors Ms Corbett says it made and a re-hearing on the merits is not justified. 
The Tribunal handed down its decision on 15 October 2013 and Ms Corbett appealed on 12 November 2013. The appeal was listed for hearing on 30 April 2014. On 1 January 2014 the jurisdiction of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal was taken over by the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal. Because these proceedings are "pending proceedings" the provisions of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997
An appeal may be made on any question of law and, with the leave of the Appeal Panel, may extend to a review of the merits of the appealable decision: Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act, s 113(2). 
Section 49ZT(1) of the Anti-Discrimination Act makes homosexual vilification unlawful: 
A 'public act' is defined in 49ZS to include: 
Section 49TZ(2) provides for three "exceptions" to s 49ZT(1): 
Section 104 states that the onus of proving an exception lies with the respondent:
The comments by Ms Corbett which were the subject of Mr Burns' complaint were made in January 2013. Those comments were first reported in the Hamilton Spectator, a newspaper published in Victoria, on 22 January 2013. The Sydney Morning Herald, the Australian and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) reported the story online over the next couple of days. Further comments appeared on the Hamilton Spectator's Facebook page. 
The Tribunal set out the details of the article in the Hamilton Spectator at [18] and [19] of its decision:
At [20] to [21] the Tribunal identified other media outlets which had also reported on Ms Corbett's comments:
The Tribunal found that any person who makes statements to a journalist, and gives express or implied permission for those statements to be published, commits a public act within the meaning of that term in s 49ZS: [26] to [27]. The Tribunal concluded that Ms Corbett had caused her statements to be communicated to the public not only through being quoted in the article but also through the republication of her words on the newspaper's Facebook page and on the websites of the Sydney Morning Herald, the Australian and the ABC. That conclusion was based on the Tribunal's finding at [28] that Ms Corbett would have appreciated that the republications were very likely to occur. 
The Tribunal decided that further comments Ms Corbett made to the State Political Correspondent for the Age and one of the Australian's political editors were also public acts. While the publication in the Hamilton Spectator was a 'public act' committed wholly in Victoria, the other instances of republication were all communicated to members of the public in New South Wales.
Applying the principles set out by Bathurst CJ in Sunol v Collier (No 2)  [2013] NSWCA 196, the Tribunal concluded that, with two exceptions, the statements set out at [9] above ([19] of the Tribunal's decision) met the test of "incitement". Those statements, and particularly Ms Corbett's agreement with the proposition that homosexuals are in the same category as paedophiles, "is 'capable of', or has the effect of, 'urging' or 'spurring on' an 'ordinary member of the class to whom it is directed' to treat homosexuals as deserving to be hated or to be regarded with 'serious contempt'." 
The two exceptions to this conclusion were that two additional statements, which did not appear in the Hamilton Spectator article but which were published on the websites of the Sydney Morning Herald and the Australian, respectively, do not fall within s 49ZT(1). Those statements were that "gays and lesbians and paedophiles were 'moral issues' and that homosexuality was 'against the word of God'."
In relation to the applicability of the provisions in s 49ZT(2), the Tribunal made the following comment at [41]:
The Tribunal ordered that Ms Corbett refrain from conduct which contravenes s 49ZT, publish an apology in the Sydney Morning Herald and write a personal letter of apology to Mr Burns. 
The Appellant relied on three grounds of appeal. Grounds 1 and 2 relate to the passage from the Tribunal's decision dealing with the so-called exceptions to homosexual vilification. (See [15] above.) Ground 1 was that the first sentence of that paragraph constituted an error of law and ground 2 was that the second sentence constituted an error of law. The third ground of appeal was that the Tribunal erred when it failed to turn its mind to the High Court authorities on the implied right to freedom of political communication. 
The Respondent submitted that these grounds do not identify a 'question of law' as required by s 113(2) of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act, s 113(2). While that criticism was well founded, we accept that the Respondent's re-characterisation of those grounds does identify such a question, namely:
The Respondent also made the point that the appeal was futile because there was no appeal against the orders themselves. We accept the Appellant's submission that it can be implied that the appeal is against the Tribunal's orders and that, if the appeal is upheld, the Appeal Panel would set aside those orders.
The Appellant put forward the following propositions in relation to the construction of the homosexual vilification provisions: (1) The provision should be read as a whole. Section 49ZT(2) is not a defence or an exception to s 49TZ
Some support for the first proposition comes from a passage in Allsop P's judgment in Sunol v Collier (No 2) [2012] NSWCA 44. In that case the question was whether s 49ZT is invalid as infringing the implied freedom of communication about governmental or political matters. The Court concluded that s 49ZT was valid. Allsop P agreed with Bathurst CJ but added some observations of his own. After referring to the secondary material in relation to the enactment of s 49ZT, Allsop P made the following general observation at [60]:
The Appellant also compared s 49ZT(2)(c) with other provisions in the Anti-Discrimination Act, such as s 49ZH(3)(c) which she regarded as a true exception provision. That provision, which relates to discrimination in employment on the ground of homosexuality states that:
It was the Appellant's submission that the words "do not apply" are different from the words in s 49ZT(2) - "Nothing in this Act renders unlawful" and that is one basis on which it can be assumed that s 49ZT(2) is not an exception. 
The Appellant also sought to draw a parallel with a finding of the Court of Appeal in Jones v Trad [2013] NSWCA 389. The Court found that the Tribunal had erred by giving no consideration to the position of the Second Respondent, Harbour Radio Pty Ltd, in relation to the application of s 20C(2)(a) or (c). 
Section 49ZT(2) has variously been described as a 'defence', an 'exemption' and an 'exception.' Our view is that the Tribunal did not err in treating s 49ZT(2) as an exception to s 49ZT(1). The Tribunal adopted the correct approach by first considering whether a public act comes within sub-section (1) and then going on to consider whether any of the exceptions in sub-section (2) applied. Section 49ZT(1) is the primary provision. No further inquiry needs to be made unless the public act meets the test in that provision. 
Our conclusion is supported by the wording in s 49TZ(2) - "Nothing in this section renders unlawful . ." and each of the paragraphs (a), (b) and (c). There is no significance in the fact that the words in s 49ZT(2) are different from those used in some other provisions of the Anti-Discrimination Act. The meaning is the same. Paragraph (a) excepts a 'fair report' of a public act that is otherwise unlawful. Paragraph (b) imports a defence of absolute privilege and paragraph (c) excuses a public act done reasonably and in good faith for particular purposes. 
As Allsop P pointed out in Sunol v Collier (No 2), when considering whether s 49ZT breaches the implied freedom of political communication it should be read as a coherent provision. But his Honour went on to say, at [71], that "[T]he section operates in a manner that for an act that falls within subsection (1) not to be unlawful it must fall within subsection (2)." 
In Jones v Trad [2013] NSWCA 389 when considering the identical provision in relation to racial vilification, Ward JA referred to Allsop P's characterisation of vilification provisions. Her Honour noted at [105] that, ". . . while referred to commonly as defences, the exceptions contained in the sub-paragraphs of 20C(2) strictly operate as exceptions to the prohibition in s 20C(1) . . " Ward JA's finding that the Tribunal had erred by giving no consideration to the position of the Second Respondent, Harbour Radio Pty Ltd, in relation to the application of s 20C(2)(a) or (c), does not assist the Appellant in this case. Harbour Radio raised the defence before the Tribunal at first instance whereas Ms Corbett did not. 
It follows that if the Appellant wished to avoid liability, the onus was on her in the proceedings at first instance, to prove that her conduct fell within one of the exceptions in s 49ZT(2): s 104. 
Alternatively, the Appellant submitted that even if the three matters listed in s 49ZT(2) are exceptions, the Tribunal should have considered whether any of those matters applies to the circumstances of this case. As the Tribunal impliedly acknowledged at [41] of the decision, (re-produced at [15] above), there is still a chance that an exception can be made out in the absence of any evidence from the Respondent. The Appellant submitted that the Tribunal should have taken into account the facts as known and determined whether any of the exceptions applied. 
The Appellant did not suggest that the 'fair report' exception or the exception relating to absolute privilege apply to her situation. Rather, it was suggested that her conduct is lawful because of s 49ZT(2)(c):
For this exception to excuse the Appellant's conduct, the Tribunal would have to have been satisfied that the public acts were done reasonably and in good faith for a purpose which was in the public interest. In Sunol v Collier Bathurst CJ noted at [41] that:
According to the Appellant, the Tribunal erred by not considering the reasonableness or bona fides of the Appellant's conduct. 
Any failure to consider the reasonableness of Ms Corbett's comments is not determinative because both reasonableness and good faith are required before the exception applies. For the public acts to have been done "in good faith" they must have been engaged in bona fide and for the protected purpose: Sunol v Collier (No 2) per Bathurst CJ at [41]; Jones v Trad per Ward JA at [110]. 
There is some disagreement as to whether "good faith" should be assessed both subjectively and objectively or just subjectively. French J, as he then was, preferred the first approach in Bropho v Human Rights & Equal Opportunity Commission [2004] FCAFC 16;  (2004) 135 FCR 105 at  [101]. Bathurst CJ preferred the second approach in Sunol v Collier at [41]. His Honour adopted the view of the Victorian Court of Appeal in Catch the Fire Ministries Inc & Ors v Islamic Council of Victoria Inc [2006] VSCA 284;  (2006) 15 VR 207 at  [92] where Nettle JA stated that:
On either interpretation, subjective good faith is required.
Even if Ms Corbett was engaged in a public interest purpose at the time she made the comments, she bore the onus of proving that she had the subjectively honest belief that her otherwise unlawful public acts of vilification were necessary or desirable to achieve that purpose. The best evidence of a person's state of mind is that person's testimony. In rare cases, there may be other, secondary evidence which satisfies the Tribunal that the person had the requisite belief. 
The Appellant's representative submitted that the Tribunal could have come to that view on the basis of the following "documented and uncontested facts": (1) that Ms Corbett was an endorsed candidate running an active election campaign;
Even if we accept that these matters were all "facts", known to the Tribunal, they are not evidence of Ms Corbett's subjective state of mind at the time. 
It follows that the Tribunal did not err by finding that there was 'no basis for believing' that the ground of exemption created by s 49ZT(2) might be available or that Ms Corbett had 'very little chance' of satisfying the requirement of good faith' if she did not give evidence. 
The third ground of appeal was that the Tribunal erred when it failed to turn its mind to the High Court authorities on the implied right to freedom of political communication. The Appellant accepted that since the decision in Sunol v Collier, there can be no doubt that s 49ZT is valid. But the Appellant submitted that it must still be borne in mind that one reason for its validity is the protection given by s 49ZT(2). It was submitted that the Tribunal erred by not referring to the decisions in Lange v Australian Broadcasting Commission [1997] HCA 25;  (1997) 189 CLR 520; Coleman v Power [2004] 39; [2004] HCA 39;  (2004) 220 CLR 1 on the implied right. 
The Appellant also highlighted the following passages at [64] and [65] of Allsop P's decision in Sunol v Collier:
The Tribunal did not err by failing to refer expressly to the implied Constitutional freedom to discuss matters of political interest or to the cases on that subject. Allsop P recognised in Sunol v Collier at [72] that there could be public acts that are communications of a political or government character that will not be reasonably expressed or in good faith. If these fall within s 49ZT(1) and not within s 49ZT(2) "a distinct type of communication capable of falling within the Constitutional protection . . will be made unlawful." The Tribunal approached its task correctly by considering firstly whether the conduct came within the terms of s 49ZT(1) and then considering whether s 49ZT(2) applied. In circumstances where there was no basis for finding that the exemptions might be available to the Respondent, the Tribunal made no error of law. 
Despite finding no error of law, the Appeal Panel may consider whether leave should be granted for the appeal to extend to the merits of the Tribunal's decision: Lloyd v Veterinary Surgeons Investigating Committee [2005] NSWCA 456. 
The Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act does not contain any guidance as to the factors that should be taken into account in determining whether leave should be granted. The Supreme Court has provided some guidance on this question in relation to appeals from decisions about guardianship and financial management. In K v K [2000] NSWSC 1052 Young J observed at [15] that: 
Leave should be granted where there otherwise would be a substantial injustice to the appellant: Hinton v Commissioner for Fair Trading [2006] NSWADT 257 at  [85]. Whether there is such an injustice must be assessed objectively by reference to the standards of the legal system: Obradovic v Commissioner for Fair Trading, Office of Fair Trading (No 2)  [2006] NSWADTAP 45 (15 August 2006) at [12] to [13]. Mere disagreement with the decision is insufficient. 
The requirement for leave to be granted is based, in part, on the long standing principle that controversies, once resolved, are not to be reopened except in a few, narrowly defined circumstances: D'Orta-Ekenaike v Victoria Legal Aid [2005] HCA 12;  (2005) 223 CLR 1 at 17-18.
The Appellant's grounds for extending the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision were that: (1) the Appellant should be given an opportunity to argue her case and tender the evidence contained in the statement of 11 November 2013; and  (2) Ms Corbett would suffer a substantial injustice if leave is not granted; (3) the Tribunal made an incorrect factual finding; and (4) the public acts were not communicated to an audience in New South Wales.
The Appellant submitted that the complaint has not been heard on the merits because she did not attend the hearing before the Tribunal and further evidence is now available. Ms Corbett sought leave to tender a statement dated 11 November 2013 which, it is said, merely elucidates on matters that the Tribunal would have known. That statement contains her reasons for non-attendance including that she lives in Victoria, receives the age pension and does not understand how NSW legislation could apply to her. Ms Corbett also provides details of what she says she remembers about the interview with journalists on 22 January 2013 and the comments she made later to other journalists. There was no suggestion that this evidence was not available at the time of the hearing.
Contrary to the Appellant's submission, the merits of the complaint have been considered and findings made. Those findings, in summary, were that: (1) Mr Burns had standing to bring a vilification complaint (at [25])
We are not satisfied that the Tribunal made an error of law in making these findings or that the way it went about its fact finding process was unfair or unorthodox. 
In Metwally (No 2) v University of Wollongong (1985) 60 ALR 68;  [1985] HCA 28; the High Court noted the general principle that there is a public interest in the finality of litigation. The Court nevertheless acknowledged, at 70, that there were exceptions to this principle including where "an order was made by mistake or as a result of fraud, or a case in which by some accident an order has been made against a party who was not heard." Of course, the grounds on which leave may be granted in the circumstances of this case are broader, but the general principle that litigation should be final should be borne in mind. 
In Banque Commerciale SA, en Liquidation v Akhil Holdings Ltd (1990) 169 CLR 279, the High Court allowed an Appellant to re-litigate a statute of limitations point even though it had not been argued at first instance. But that case can be distinguished from Ms Corbett's situation because although, like Ms Corbett, Banque Commerciale SA did not appear at the hearing, it did file a defence pleading the statute of limitations point. As well, the outcome of the defence did not turn on the evidence or submissions made at first instance. It did in this case. Ms Corbett was given notice of the hearing and an opportunity to attend and plead her case. 
The Appellant submitted that she would suffer substantial injustice if leave is not extended to the merits because the Tribunal has:
In all the circumstances, we do not regard having to comply with an order of the Tribunal to apologise as amounting to a 'substantial injustice'. There is no broad question of administration or policy which needs to be resolved. There was no suggestion of fraud or mistake. Ms Corbett was given notice of the hearing and chose not to attend. Even taking into account her reasons for not participating, as set out in her statement, it is not unjust that she must now comply with the orders the Tribunal made. 
The Tribunal found that the public acts incited hatred towards or serious contempt for homosexual people on the ground of their homosexuality. At [37] the Tribunal stated that:
According to the Appellant, the Tribunal was wrong to find that the comments conveyed any connection between paedophilia and homosexuality. 
Ms Corbett does not deny saying the words re-produced at [9] above. In our view, on the basis of that evidence, the finding that those words vilified homosexuals was open to the Tribunal. It did not make that finding in an unorthodox or an unfair manner. 
At [28] to [30] of the decision, the Tribunal held that the Appellant had committed three public acts: the statements to the journalist from the Hamilton Spectator, the statements to the State Political Correspondent for the Age and the statements to one of the Australian's political editors. Those statements had been re-published in various print and electronic media. The Tribunal then concluded at [31] that:
The Appellant submitted that the real audience in this case were electors living in the Federal seat of Wannon in Victoria. The Tribunal should not have found that public acts performed wholly in Victoria breached the New South Wales Anti-Discrimination Act. The Appellant also submitted that she should not be held accountable for decisions to re-publish her words because those decisions were not in her control. 
The Appellant did not characterise these grounds as questions of law. Rather, they were put forward as reasons for extending the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. 
Generally, a party is bound by the manner in which the case was conducted at first instance: Joice v Permanent Trustee Company Limited & Anor  [2004] NSWCA 262 at  [106]. The fact that Ms Corbett did not attend the hearing (even taking into account the reasons for non-attendance) does not justify allowing her to run her case for the first time on appeal. 
In Dow Jones and Co Inc v Gutnick  [2002] HCA 56,  210 CLR 575, a defamation case, one issue was whether material posted on a website in the United States was published in Victoria. The High Court (Gleeson CJ, McHugh, Gummow & Hayne JJ) held at [44] that:
The appeal is dismissed because the Tribunal correctly construed the homosexual vilification provisions of the Anti-Discrimination Act and was not required to refer to the implied right under the Constitution to freedom of political communication. There is no justification for extending the appeal to the merits of the Tribunal's decision because, among other things, Ms Corbett had an opportunity to put her case at first instance and chose not to do so.  (1) The application for the appeal to extend to the merits of the Tribunal's decision is refused.
############# I'm default separator ##########42
APPEAL -Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - residential tenancy - outof time - merits review - whether appellant may have suffereda substantialmiscarriage of justice - new evidence
This is an appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal made on 6 March 2014 relating to a residential tenancy agreement between the appellant (the tenant) and the respondent (the landlord). The Tribunal ordered the appellant to pay a total of $6,286 to the respondent. This appeal concerns two components of that sum - $2820 which the appellant was ordered to pay as a "break lease" fee and $1800 which was compensation for external roof damage. 
The appellant did not appeal on a question of law. Instead he sought leave to appeal "on any other ground": Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 80(2)(b). In relation to appeals from the Consumer and Commercial Division leave can only be granted in the limited circumstances set out in Schedule 4, cl 12: 
The meaning of "substantial miscarriage of justice" was summarised by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at [71] and [79]:
An appeal from a decision of the Tribunal made in residential proceedings must be lodged within 14 days from the day on which the appellant was notified of the decision: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (NSW), cl 25(4). The appellant was notified of the decision on 6 March 2014 and lodged the notice of appeal on 27 March 2014, six days out of time. 
Section 41 of the NCAT Act permits the Tribunal to grant an extension of time:
The Tribunal's power to grant an extension of time in which to lodge an appeal was considered in Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22. The considerations that will generally be relevant are: the length of the delay, the reason for the delay, the extent of any prejudice suffered by the respondent and whether the appellant has a fairly arguable case on appeal: Tomko v Palasty (No 2) [2007] NSWCA 369;  (2007) 71 NSWLR 61at [55] (Basten JA) but note also [14], Nanschild v Pratt [2011] NSWCA 85 at  [39] to [42]. The discretion to extend time may only be exercised if strict compliance with the rules will work an injustice on the appellant: Gallo v Dawson [1990] HCA 30,  93 ALR 479 at  [2]. 
A delay of six days is relatively short. Although the appellant's case was not strong, the respondent could not point to any particular prejudice he would suffer if the time were extended. The appellant is no longer occupying the premises so there is no ongoing disadvantage to the respondent such as non-payment of rent. In all the circumstances it would work an injustice on the appellant if he were not able to appeal given the short delay in filing the notice and the lack of any prejudice to the respondent. The time for filing the notice of appeal should be extended to 27 March 2014.
The grounds of appeal are stated as follows:
The respondent's reply to the appeal opposes the appellant being given leave to appeal. If leave is granted the respondent submitted that the appellant had not suffered any substantial injustice as a result of the Tribunal's decision. 
The appellant submitted that the first instance decision was not fair and equitable because he should not have been obliged to pay the break lease fee. 
The parties' relationship was governed by a residential tenancy agreement which commenced on 19 April 2013 and concluded on 18 April 2014. Clause 41 of the agreement provided that the tenant agrees that, if the tenant ends the residential tenancy agreement before the end of the fixed term of the agreement, the tenant must pay a break fee. The amount of the break fee is 6 weeks rent if the fixed term is for 3 years or less and if less than half of the term has expired, or 4 weeks rent otherwise. The order at first instance requiring the appellant to pay the sum of $2820 was calculated on the basis that the weekly rent was $470 and the break fee was for 6 weeks rent making a total of $2820. 
The appellant submitted that the break lease fee should not be payable for two reasons. The first was that he had suffered financial hardship because he had lost his job. The second was that the premises were not safe and the landlord had breached his obligation to maintain the premises in a safe and habitable condition. 
On 1 September 2013, the appellant gave notice of his intention to vacate the premises. He served a "Tenants Vacating Notice" in which he wrote that the reason for vacating the premises was: "I have lost my job/financial hardship." There is no provision in the lease or the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) which would enable the appellant to terminate the tenancy and be relieved of the break lease fee because of financial hardship. In those circumstances, it cannot be said that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because of the failure of the Tribunal to take financial hardship into account when calculating that fee. 
At the appeal panel hearing the appellant stated that the main reason that the break lease fee should not be paid is because the premises were not safe enough to continue the tenancy. The appellant stated that he sent notices to the respondent's agent complaining about "problems". In particular, he had told the respondent's agent in an email on 20 June 2013 that the premises were unsafe: 
According to the appellant, the respondent did not respond to his concerns about the state of the premises. He moved out towards the end of August 2013. At the first instance hearing the appellant tendered the email and gave oral evidence of his concerns about the safety of the premises. The vacating notice dated 1 September 2013 was also before the Tribunal. 
The Tribunal at first instance was aware of the appellant's concerns about the safety of the premises. The Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant was justified in vacating the premises on safety grounds. Although the appellant complained about the state of the premises in late June 2013 he did not leave until late August 2013 at the earliest. The fact that the appellant stayed in possession for a further two months after sending the email suggests that safety was not of immediate concern. In addition, the only reason he gave on the vacating notice was financial hardship. 
It was open to the Tribunal to find that the appellant terminated the tenancy because of financial hardship. In those circumstances a break lease fee is payable. 
The Tribunal decided that, on the balance of probabilities, that the landlord had established that the damage to the roof had been caused by the tenant climbing on to the roof to install a shade awning. The Tribunal accepted the amount of compensation to be $1800 that is the amount which a plumber had quoted for the repair of the roof, less an amount for depreciation.
The appellant submitted that this aspect of the Tribunal's decision was against the weight of evidence for two reasons. Firstly, the Tribunal did not have regard to the incoming condition report which stated that there was a leak through the ceiling when the tenancy commenced. Secondly, the photographs of the roof show damage to the entire roof, not just the area where the sunshade was installed. 
On the basis of: the original incoming condition report; the original outgoing condition report; and a letter to the Tribunal from the respondent's agent dated 20 November 2013 attaching photos, the appellant submitted that the Tribunal should have drawn the inference that the roof damage was not caused by the installation of the sunshade. The incoming condition report records water leakage in the ceiling of bedroom 1 suggesting that the roof was leaking at the commencement of the tenancy in areas other than where the sunshade had been installed. 
The respondent submitted that the quote from the plumber indicates that repairs were needed to "two thirds of the roof area." The photographs do not clearly show the location or extent of damage to the roof but the quotation from the plumber suggests that it was extensive. As the appellant had climbed on the roof to install the sunshade, it was reasonable to conclude that that was the cause of the roof damage. In relation to the ceiling having water leakage in bedroom 1, the respondent said that that does not mean that it is reasonable to conclude that the roof was damaged at the commencement of the lease.
The incoming and outgoing condition reports refer to a leak in the ceiling of one bedroom 1 but not to the condition of the roof. We do not accept that there was evidence before the Tribunal that gives rise to an inference that there was some roof damage in one area because of a leak in the ceiling of bedroom 1. There are other possible explanations as to how water could penetrate a ceiling other than roof damage. 
While there is some conflicting evidence about the extent and cause of roof damage, we are not satisfied that appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was against the weight of evidence. 
The appellant submitted that evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of hearing. He stated that a Ms Hamzehnezhad can give evidence and that she was not available at the time of the first instance hearing "because of her job". The appellant did not identify the nature of this evidence or why the witness was not available at the time of the hearing. The appellant could have submitted a statement from that witness or applied for a hearing date suitable to that witness. Accordingly, the fact that she is now available to give evidence is not a ground on which leave to appeal should be granted. 
The appellant also sought leave to file fresh evidence in the form of an independent expert's report on damage to the premises. Again, this evidence could have been obtained by the appellant prior to the hearing. There was ample time to do so. The appellant filed the application with the Tribunal on 13 December 2013 and the hearing did not take place until 6 March 2014. The evidence of an expert is not significant new evidence which was not reasonably available at the time of the first instance hearing. Accordingly, this ground for leave to appeal has not been established.  (1) Time to file the application for leave to appeal is extended to 27 March 2014.  (2) Leave to appeal is refused. (3) Appeal dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########43
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal NSW - appeal panel -residential building work - tribunal decided on a basisthat was not in issue orargued in the proceedings - denial of procedural fairness
The appellant is the owner of a property which is used as a training facility and accommodation for artists and is also the residence of one of the owner's directors. The owner retained the respondent, a licensed plumbing company, to carry out work on a bathroom at the property in or about August 2013. The owner was, however, dissatisfied with the quality of the plumbing building work and did not pay for it. On 22 October 2013 the respondent plumbing company commenced proceedings in the Home Building Division of the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal, seeking payment of $3408.35 (HB13/55515). On 7 November 2013 the owner commenced proceedings seeking relief from payment for the work as claimed and damages for defective and incomplete residential building work (HB13/57683). 
The matters were heard together on 12 February 2014 in the Consumer and Commercial Division of this Tribunal under cl 7 of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act). The Tribunal delivered its decision on 26 February 2014 and made orders as follows:
The owner has appealed against the decision under s 80(2)(b) of the Act. 
For the reasons which follow, we have concluded that the appeal should be allowed and the whole of both proceedings should be remitted to be reheard in the Consumer and Commercial Division by a differently constituted tribunal. 
The reasons why we have concluded that the appeal should be allowed can be stated relatively briefly. There was, however, a certain amount of confusion on the part of the Appeal Panel and among the parties as to what was actually being determined at the Appeal Panel hearing on 11 August 2014 and consequently we shall also explain what occurred and the reasons why, in the interests of facilitating the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings, we took the course we did. 
These reasons deal with the appeal first and then address the procedural confusion and how it was resolved. 
The grounds of appeal were set out in a seven page document, attached to the notice of appeal form, entitled "Grounds of Appeal" together with a "short summary of each reason why the appellant considered the Tribunal was wrong". 
The appellant identified its grounds of appeal as follows:
The accompanying 30 paragraphs referred to as the "short summary" are not set out here but have been included in the Appeal Panel's consideration. 
As the Appeal Panel understands it, the owner/appellant's attack on the decision at first instance had 2 principal bases: (1) the Tribunal erred in ordering that the respondent was entitled to recover the full amount sought on a quantum meruit basis, when such a claim was not made by the respondent and the appellant did not have the opportunity to address such a claim; and
In addition, there were other grounds of appeal raised by the appellant. These grounds included whether the Tribunal at first instance erred in giving little or no weight to the evidence contained in the quotations for repair relied upon by the appellant in circumstances where the work was, on the appellant's case, acknowledged to be defective, failing to cancel the respondent's licence, failing to order that the respondent make an apology and failing to afford the appellant procedural fairness because it was precluded from raising arguments as a consequence of a misunderstanding between the Tribunal and the appellant about the words "cistern" and "system". 
These grounds of appeal raise, or arguably raise, questions of law and accordingly the appellant was entitled to bring these aspects of its appeal as of right under s 80(2)(b). Indeed, the respondent accepted that the appellant did not require leave to appeal in the reply to appeal which the respondent filed in this matter. In so far as there were other grounds raised by the appellant that may not have been limited to questions of law, in the circumstances of this case it will not be necessary to deal with those grounds and consider whether leave should be granted as the appeal should be allowed on the first ground set out above. 
In its reply to appeal, the respondent set out its response to the grounds relied upon by the appellant as follows: 
Given the conclusions we have reached on the quantum meruit ground of appeal, it is not necessary to address any of the grounds of appeal relied upon. 
As to the quantum meruit issue, the reasons for decision given by the Tribunal at first instance included the following:
The Tribunal below relied upon time sheets presented by the respondent in relation to an issue other than a quantum meruit claim and the undisputed fact that the respondent did some plumbing work for the appellant. On this basis it was concluded "the Contractor has proved his claim on a quantum meruit basis in the amount of $3,408.35. I allow that claim". In fact, no such claim had ever been made by the respondent. The appellant had not addressed such a claim in its evidence nor was it put on notice that it should do so. 
On the basis of the reasons for decision and the applications the subject of the two proceedings at first instance, the Appeal Panel finds that the respondent did not bring its claim for payment on a quantum meruit basis and its evidence did not include the evidence which would normally be relied upon in a quantum meruit claim. Furthermore, when the Tribunal below stated that neither party raised this issue in their evidence at the hearing itself, we understand this to mean that the Tribunal did not raise the possibility with the parties that it might decide the matter on that basis nor did any of the parties raise such a possibility. 
The Appeal Panel concludes that neither party made, or was given the opportunity to make, submissions on whether a claim based upon a quantum meruit was available or should be upheld. Nonetheless the Tribunal proceeded to uphold the respondent's application on the basis of a quantum meruit claim. 
It is well established that it is a denial of procedural fairness, and thus an error of law, to determine a claim on a basis that was not in issue or argued in proceedings. In Warkworth Mining Limited v Bulga Milbrodale Progress Association Inc [2014] NSWCA 105 at  [40] and [41] Bathurst CJ said:
This is what occurred in the present case. The Tribunal at first instance determined the matter on a basis that was not in issue or argued in the proceedings. Accordingly, the appellant's appeal should be upheld. 
There is a complication in that there were two proceedings which were the subject of the orders appealed from, the respondent's claim under a contract for plumbing services provided (HB13/55515) and the appellant' s claims based on defective or deficient work done by the plumber (HB13/57683). The issues in these two proceedings were interrelated. The respondent's claim for payment for the work involved consideration of whether the work was defective or incomplete. In the circumstances of this matter, it was clear to the Appeal Panel that these remitted proceedings cannot be meaningfully decided without reference to the owners' allegations as to defective work. The appellant's claim for defective and incomplete work obviously included the same issues. 
It is necessary and appropriate having regard to both practicality and fairness to set aside the orders made in both proceedings. Doing so will avoid the possibility of inconsistent findings being made in relation to whether or not the plumbing work was defective or incomplete, as alleged by the appellant. If, instead, the decision in respect of the respondent's claim were set aside and the decision in relation to the appellant's claim was allowed to stand, the possibility of inconsistent findings is manifest. This should be avoided. 
On these bases, the Appeal Panel proposes to order that: (1) The appeal be upheld;
As noted at the outset, there was some unfortunate confusion as to what was actually being heard by the Appeal Panel on 11 August 2014. 
At the beginning of the hearing, it was the Appeal Panel's understanding and apparently that of the respondent that the hearing related to the substantive appeal. In contrast, the appellant understood that the hearing was limited to the questions of what further directions should be made for the preparation of the appeal and whether a stay should be granted. As a consequence, the appellant sought an adjournment of the hearing on the basis that it had not come prepared to argue the substantive appeal. 
The confusion arose out of the circumstances leading up to the listing on 11 August 2014. In its notice of appeal, the appellant had sought a stay of the orders requiring it to pay money. 
On 24 April 2014 the Appeal Panel, constituted by Mr S Westgarth, Deputy President, ordered as follows: 
The matter was listed for directions before Mr S Westgarth, Deputy President, on 6 May 2014 who made the following directions:  (1) The appellant is to file and serve submissions on or before 22 May 2014. 
Two letters complaining about those directions, which had been made in the appellant's absence, were sent by email to the Registry by the appellant on 2 and 20 May 2014. 
The Appeal Panel, constituted by the President, Wright J, proceeded to list a further urgent telephone directions hearing for 26 June 2014 to address the concerns raised in the letters of 2 and 20 May. Notice of that telephone hearing was not issued, however, until 24 June 2014. At the appeal hearing, the appellant asserted that it did not receive that notification until less than 24 hours before the appointed date and were unable to attend. In their absence, Wright J directed that:  (1) The appellant's emails of 2 May 2014 and 20 May 2014 be treated as a fresh application for a stay and an application to vacate directions made on 6 May 2014 respectively. 
These directions indicate that what was proposed to be heard on 11 August 2014 were the applications for further directions and the application for a stay not the substantive appeal. 
Unfortunately, these directions were not brought to the attention of the Appeal Panel, as constituted on 11 August 2014, until the matter was raised by the appellant on that date. 
In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel might ordinarily have been minded to adjourn the proceedings. It decided not to do so, however, having regard to the unusual circumstances of this case and the duty on the Tribunal to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issue in proceedings under s 36 of the Act and the requirements of ss 36(4) and 38(4) of the Act. 
The Appeal Panel was aware and took into account when considering the appellant's application for an adjournment that the appellant had a very strong argument that there had been a breach of the obligation to afford procedural fairness as a result of the Tribunal's deciding the matter on a basis that had not been raised in or argued in the proceedings. Therefore, if the Appeal Panel decided to uphold the appellant's appeal after hearing from the respondent on 11 August 2014, the appellant would not be prejudiced by the refusal of an adjournment and, indeed, would save the time and expense involved in a further hearing. 
The Appeal Panel also took into account that it was not in dispute that the money payable under the first order made by the Tribunal below had already been paid by the appellant and, accordingly, there was no order in relation to which a stay would be appropriate or necessary. 
Finally, it took into account that the respondent had come prepared to argue the substantive appeal and accordingly the respondent would not be prejudiced if an adjournment were not granted. 
On this basis, the Appeal Panel determined that it should not adjourn the hearing but should proceed to hear the substantive appeal. 
After hearing full submissions for the respondent, the Appeal Panel was satisfied that it should allow the appellant's appeal and make the orders outlined above. If it had not been so satisfied, it could have granted the adjournment at that point. That course, however, was not necessary. 
By refusing the appellant's adjournment in the circumstances and upholding the appellant's appeal after receiving all the submissions that the respondent wished to make, the Appeal Panel believes that it achieved a result whereby the parties were saved the waste and expense of a further hearing, the appellant has not been prejudiced as its appeal has been upheld and all the orders below have been set aside, the respondent has not been prejudiced as it has had a full opportunity to put its case on the appeal and the real issue in the proceedings was determined justly, quickly and cheaply. 
It is unfortunate that such confusion arose in the first place and it cannot be attributed to any fault on the part of the parties. 
In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) The appeal be upheld.
############# I'm default separator ##########44
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - whethermedical certificate adequate to explain nonappearance - adequacyof reasons -question of law - appeal dismissed.
Mr Hagh (the applicant) leased residential premises at Pyrmont from Mr Kong (the respondent). On 14 May 2014 Member F Holles made orders terminating that residential tenancy agreement and granting possession. Mr Hagh then had an injured knee and did not attend the hearing. He now applies for leave to appeal from the decision below, under s 80(2)(b) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) ('the Act'). 
On 26 August, the matter came before the Appeal Panel. As described below, to the extent necessary, the Panel granted leave to appeal because of the absence of any or any sufficient reasons by Member Holles, and then proceeded to hear the substantive question as to whether there was a breach of the residential tenancy agreement between the parties which justified orders for termination. The appeal Panel found in favour of the respondent on both questions, and so ordered. These are the reasons for those orders.
As there was almost no evidence in the Tribunal's hearing file, we received evidence on the appeal under s 80(3)(b) of the Act which established the following.
The applicant and respondent entered into a residential tenancy agreement on 11 December 2013 in relation to property at Pyrmont. The residential tenancy agreement provided that: 
The by-laws made by the Body Corporate under the Strata Schemes Management Act 1996 (NSW) at the residential premises relevantly provided:
The schedule to the agreement contained special conditions also called 'by-laws'. That special condition 'by-law' also numbered 16 provided 'the tenant must not, without the approval in writing of the landlord, keep any animal on the flat or the common area.' 
At all times the applicant has and continues to have a small dog on the premises. He asked for permission to keep the dog on the premises. Consent was refused by the landlord, who pointed to the provisions of by-law 16 made by the Body Corporate.
There was some evidence that an owner of long standing in another lot in the premises kept a dog and had done so continuously from a time before the current by-law was made. The standard by-law to be found in Schedule 1 of the Strata Schemes Management Act provides that:
However, as noted the Body Corporate of the relevant premises had, pursuant to s 48 of the Strata Schemes Management Act, altered the by law to the form noted above, at least by the time the applicant entered into his residential tenancy agreement.
On 1 April 2014, the landlord issued a notice of termination based on a breach of by-law 16 contained in Schedule 1 to the residential tenancy agreement. 
The matter came before the Tribunal for hearing on 14 May. The applicant did not attend. It appears from the Tribunal's hearing file that he provided a medical certificate shortly before the hearing which was in very general terms, and stated that, for a considerable period of time, the applicant would be unfit to 'walk'. There was no explanation at the hearing or on the appeal as to why the applicant in fact could not have attended or could not have sent someone else, namely his wife, who lived with him at the premises, or could not have provided a more detailed and probative medical certificate.
Although it was ultimately unnecessary for us to deal with this issue, we respectfully adopt what the Court of Appeal said in AHB v NSW Trustee and Guardian  [2014] NSWCA 40 at  [4] and [5]. Although the statements by the Court of Appeal refer to the requirements in court, generally speaking, we consider them appropriate to apply equally in the Tribunal. The Court said:
But for the absence of reasons below, we would have dismissed the appeal on this ground. 
The hearing file relevantly contains orders as follows:
The hearing file contains a 'hearing notes' document, which is incomplete. There are also copies of some medical certificates and a ledger setting out the amounts of rent payable. 
There is no copy of the notice of termination, which is an essential prerequisite to the termination of the lease. There is nothing from which we can glean what were the reasons for the decision to proceed in the absence of the applicant and to reject his application for an adjournment based on his injured knee, nor, equally importantly, the evidence on which the Member was satisfied that orders for termination and for possession were justified.
Section 62 of the Act provides:
Although there was apparently no request for reasons under s 62(2), that is not the end of the matter.
On 9 April 2014, a month prior to the hearing below, the Appeal Panel (which included the President) published Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17.
It is appropriate to set out in full the following extracts from that decision:
It follows that even if the matter below was treated as uncontested (which, strictly it was not) the Tribunal fell short of what was required of it. 
Insofar as Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 sets out mandatory requirements for reasons, breach of which amounts to an error of law, a question of law is raised. If a question of law is not so raised because there is a question of fact and degree, we would further grant leave for the appeal on the basis that the decision below 'was not fair and equitable' within the meaning of Sch 4, Cl 12(1)(a) of the Act, because the lack of reasons deprived the losing party of any means of determining why he lost and, on the question of discretion, because this raises, to use again the language of Collins v Urban at [84(2)] '(a) issues of principle; [or] (b) matters of administration or policy which might have general application'.
In theory we could have adjourned the matter and required the member below to now give reasons, or remitted the matter to him for reconsideration according to law, however we have decided to determine the matter ourselves, to the extent necessary, by receiving additional evidence. We do so by reference to the following provisions of the Act:  (a) s 36(1) which provides that the guiding principle for the Act in their application to the proceedings in the Tribunal 'is to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings';
Section 87 of the Residential Tenancies Act states:
It was not in dispute on the appeal that a valid notice complying with s 87 had been issued on 1 April and received by the tenant on 2 April so ensuring that at least 14 days clear notice was provided. We also had in evidence the terms of the residential tenancy agreement and the applicable by-laws made under the Strata Schemes Management Act, the terms of which have been recited above.
Not only did the notice and the terms of the contract and the strata scheme by-laws make it clear that it was not possible for consent to be given to have a dog on these premises, by either the landlord or the owners' corporation, but in any event, the landlord had not given that permission. 
It matters not, for the purposes of this application, that the Body Corporate of the premises may have declined to enforce particular by-laws in relation to pets for one other owner whose possession seems to have predated the making of the amended strata by-law 16; the fact is, there was a breach. That breach continued, the tenant admitting that the dog continued to be kept, and he had not complied with the earlier orders, and, as he said to us, he would rather leave the premises than remove the dog, thus making clear he had no intention of complying with the orders previously made by the Tribunal.
The Tribunal specifically brought to the parties' attention the terms of s 87, and the appellant addressed on those issues, in effect stating that: (a) The dog was small;
We thus find that there was compliance with s 87(1), (2) and (3) of the RT Act. We have considered all the grounds in s 87(4) and (5). We observe that: (a) Permission was not, and could not have been given by the landlord;
In the circumstances, we made the orders set out above.
############# I'm default separator ##########45
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - no evidence to supportfinding of fact - failure to give reasons - failure to exercisejurisdiction -appeal upheld. WORDS AND PHRASES - 'written statement of reasons' -Civil and Administrative Tribunal 2013 (NSW), s 62.
This appeal is from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal delivered on 20 May 2014 dismissing the appellant's application in matter number HB14/09386. 
The appeal was heard on 27 August 2014 and at the end of that hearing the Appeal Panel announced its decision and made orders as follows: (1) The Appeal is upheld. (2) Order 1 made on 20 May 2014 in HB 14/09386 is set aside. (3) The whole of the proceedings be remitted to the Consumer and Commercial Division for rehearing.
On that same date and in order to ensure that the matter was reheard expeditiously, the Appeal Panel set a date for the rehearing and gave directions as follows: (4) The Appellant file and serve any statutory declarations from witnesses and other documents on which she seeks to rely on or before 10 September 2014. (5) The Respondents file and serve any statutory declarations from witnesses and other documents on which they seek to rely on or before 24 September 2014. (6) The matter be listed for hearing on 25 September 2014 at 9:15am for a  day at Parramatta.
Having announced the decision and made orders and directions, the Appeal Panel indicated that it would provide its reasons for doing so in writing. These are those reasons. 
From the home building application form and material attached to that form filed on 13 February 2014 in proceedings number HB14/09386, it appears that the appellant, who was the applicant below, was alleging that she had engaged the respondents, trading under the name SK Floor Sanding, to install, sand and finish a timber floor at her home in Arncliffe in accordance with a written quotation dated 6 August 2013 for $9,760. Disputes arose between the appellant and the respondents concerning various aspects of the work including its timing and quality. The appellant claimed that she asked the respondents to leave her premises in about mid-December 2013 when she feared that they would damage her property. She also said that she had paid $6,700 for the work quoted and $500 for moving the timber delivered from the nature strip into the house. 
In section 11 of her home building application form, the appellant said that the money orders she wanted were: 
In section 12 of that form headed "What are your reasons for requesting the above orders" the following were also referred to: (1) "excess timber order" quantified at $800 and, judging from the table attached to the form, based upon the quotation which indicated 183 sq m would be required, the amount ordered by the appellant of 180 sq m and the amount alleged to have been actually required of 122.55 sq m;
In section 14 of the form headed "Contract details" she wrote "Quote attached" and the quotation of 6 August 2013 was attached. In addition, other material attached to the application form indicated that "waves on floor" were not the only defects alleged and there were also problems such as "around 40 nail marks requiring putty including timber rips and holes" and that a "light sanding which got rid of marks" was not done. 
In accordance with directions made by the Tribunal below, the material to be relied upon by the appellant at any hearing was provided to the Tribunal on 3 April 2014. It comprised a statutory declaration by her, a copy of her complaint to NSW Fair Trading, 3 quotations for work to finish and rectify the installation of the timber flooring (one from Abacus Flooring, one from Sydney Floor Sanders and one from T-Flooring) and 29 photographs showing the alleged defects. 
The respondents also complied with the Tribunal's directions and filed their material on 30 April 2014. It included a 6 page chronology, 2 statutory declarations, 18 photographs of the work, 5 pages of screen shots of telephone text message communications, a copy of the quotation of 6 August 2013, a letter of demand from the respondents' solicitor together with a receipt for payment of the lawyer's fees, an extract from a Technical Data Sheet concerning sanding and finishing timber floors, an extract from a document including a recommended grit guide, a tax invoice from the respondents to the appellant of 28 March 2014, an extract from the Australian Business Register for the respondents, a USB stick with a voice recording of what occurred on 11 December 2013 and a 2 page schedule responding to 9 specific complaints concerning the flooring work done by the respondents. 
The application was listed for hearing on 20 May 2014. On that day the Tribunal below made an order as follows:
Accompanying that order in the Notice of Order in proceedings HB14/09386 were some paragraphs headed "Reasons for decision" in the following terms:
The appellant lodged her notice of appeal under s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act) on 17 June 2014. 
The Tribunal's notice of appeal form requires an appellant to list the orders which the appellant seeks to challenge and to state each reason why the appellant considers the Tribunal's decision to be wrong. Although the appellant did not refer to the specific order made on 20 May 2014, it was obvious to the Appeal Panel and the parties that this was the order being challenged. 
Similarly, although the grounds of appeal were clearly not drafted by a person with legal training, the Appeal Panel was satisfied, having regard to its obligation to act with as little formality as the circumstances of the case permitted and according to equity, good conscience and the substantial merits of the case without regard to technicality or legal forms (s 38(3) of the Act), that a number of grounds of appeal could be discerned. These are identified in the paragraphs which follow. 
The appellant stated the following in the Notice of Appeal:
The Appeal Panel takes this as an attempt to articulate the ground that the Tribunal erred in law in finding that "[t]he applicant is an owner/builder who apparently employed the respondents to supply and install a staircase" when there was no evidentiary support for that conclusion. 
In the Notice of Appeal, the appellant also stated "I wish to claim $800 for excessive order" and "Julian had measured excess timber & asked to order 183 sq mtr. I ordered 180 sq mtr. Now I have 122.5 meters of timber left which is excessive after installation." As noted above, the appellant had made such a claim in the home building application form when she referred in section 12 of that form to "excess timber order", quantified the amount claimed as $800 and provided calculations in the table of measurements attached to the form. 
The Appeal Panel takes what is set out in the notice of appeal as sufficient to raise as a ground of appeal that the Tribunal erred in law by either failing to give any reasons for dismissing this aspect of her claim or by failing to exercise the jurisdiction conferred on the tribunal and invoked by the appellant. 
The appellant also stated in her notice of appeal "I have provided photos and quotes from experience flooring companies. ... I had provided what I would have thoughts evidence to proof the condition and poor workmanship ... It seems unfair when rectification work has to be carried out." Similar matters were raised elsewhere in the notice of appeal. 
Whilst the Appeal Panel accepts that this is not in the section headed grounds of appeal and it is not formulated as a ground of appeal, the Panel is satisfied that it raises a ground of appeal that the Tribunal erred in law in finding that the appellant's claim was without evidentiary support, as it did in concluding that "without any evidence to support her claim, the findings of the Tribunal are reflected in the order made [dismissing her claim]", when such a finding was itself evidentially baseless, given the evidence put forward by the appellant. 
Whilst there are very few findings of fact made in the reasons for decision, the Tribunal below did find that "[t]he applicant ... apparently employed the respondents to supply and install a staircase". 
The parties did not contend that the appellant ever engaged the respondents to install a staircase. The Appeal Panel has reviewed the material before the Tribunal at first instance and there is no material to suggest that the respondents were retained to install a staircase. The quotation of 6 August 2013 was for the installation of a timber floor and included such items as "Batten Install", "timber Install", "coatings (U45)" and "stairs" and the area to be covered was quoted as a total of 183 sq metres. It is not credible to suggest that the stairs formed all or even a majority of the area of 183 sq metres. The photographs submitted by both parties showed extensive timber flooring installed on floors in various rooms and some timber on a staircase, the structure of which was apparently pre-existing. 
There was in the Appeal Panel's view simply no evidence before the Tribunal to support the finding made that the appellant retained the respondents to supply and install a staircase. On the material available, such a conclusion was not reasonably open. 
It is well established that a tribunal which decides a question of fact when there is no evidence in support of the finding makes an error of law - see Kostas v HIA Insurance Services Pty Ltd [2010] HCA 32;  (2010) 241 CLR 390 at  [91] and the cases there cited. Consequently, the Appeal Panel was of view that the appellant must succeed on this ground of appeal. 
The circumstances of this case are unusual. The Tribunal below fundamentally misunderstood the nature of the work to be done by the respondents for the appellant so that any conclusion it reached would be unsound and could not be allowed to stand. The Tribunal, however, made no other findings as to whether, when and how any work was done and whether or not it was defective or incomplete. In these circumstances, the most appropriate course is for the Appeal Panel to remit the whole of the proceedings for rehearing in the Consumer and Commercial Division. 
In addition to the claim for defective or incomplete work, the appellant claimed $800 in respect of what she alleged was excess timber that she had been required to order as a result of the mismeasurement or misquoting by the respondents. The Tribunal below dismissed the entirety of her claim in the order made on 20 may 2014 but did not refer to this excess timber claim at all in the reasons for decision. No evidence was reviewed concerning it. No findings of fact were made. No exposition of the relevant law was given. No application of the law to the fact can be found in the reasons for decision. The Tribunal below simply dismissed the application in its entirety. 
It is possible to characterise what occurred either as a failure to give reasons for the Tribunal's decision or a failure to exercise the jurisdiction conferred on the Tribunal and invoked by the appellant in relation to this claim in respect of excess timber - see Waterways Authority v Fitzgibbon [2005] HCA 57 at  [129] - [130] and Resource Pacific Pty Ltd v Wilkinson [2013] NSWCA 33 at  [42]. Whichever way it should be characterised, the Tribunal's failure to consider such a claim at all in its reasons for decision amounted to an error of law by the Tribunal below. On this ground, the appeal should be upheld and the order in so far as it dealt with the excess timber claim should be set aside. This aspect of the appellant's application should also be remitted to the Consumer and Commercial Division for rehearing. 
It can also be noted here that the statement of reasons did not address the appellant's claim that she was entitled to reimbursement for a period during which there was delay in the completion of the work with the consequence that the appellant was denied access to her home. Although this was not explicitly raised in the notice of appeal, so far as the Appeal Panel could determine, in the interests of justice there does not appear to be any reasons why this claim should not also be remitted along with all the other claims in the circumstances. 
The Tribunal at first instance stated "without any evidence to support her claim, the findings of the Tribunal are reflected in the order made [dismissing her claim]". There was, however, quite a deal of evidence which could potentially support the appellant's claim. 
Without making any findings as to whether any such evidence should be accepted, the Appeal Panel could identify the following evidentiary material which was before the Tribunal below and which could be relied upon to support her case: (1) the quotation of 6 August 2013 which sets out the work to be done and the amount of timber required;
Indeed, the respondents themselves understood that there was a case made against them on the evidence of the appellant and responded in their documents filed in the Tribunal. In particular, the document headed "Responding to Complaints" (marked P13 and consisting of 2 pages) provided a response to each of 9 complaints that they had been able to identify as follows: "1. Unfinished sanding ... 2. Visible ripples ... 3. Rough surface &excessive dust on polished floor ... 4. Repair 3 creaking stairs ... 5. Repair Floor (back entry way) ... 6. Prepare unmatched colour putty ... 7. Prepare areas where holes not filled ... 8. Titan etc [this refers to the product used to coat the floors] ...9. One of the excesses [excuses?] used to delay work etc ...". 
Thus, the Appeal Panel was satisfied that the finding by the Tribunal at first instance that the appellant's claim was without evidentiary support was wrong. That is not to say that the evidence relied upon by the appellant should have been accepted. Rather it was wrong to conclude in the circumstances that the claim in its entirety should be dismissed on the basis that it was "without any evidence to support [it]". The approach of the Tribunal below was misconceived and its conclusion involved an error of law. 
This ground of appeal having been made out and given the nature of the error, it was also appropriate to remit the whole of the appellant's claim to the Consumer and Commercial Division for rehearing. 
For the reasons given above, the Appeal Panel upheld the appeal set aside the order made by the Tribunal below on 20 may 2014 and remitted the whole of the proceedings to the Consumer and Commercial Division for rehearing. 
It is, however, appropriate to make some additional comments on the duty to give reasons for decisions in the Tribunal. 
The written reasons for decision at first instance in this matter stated "These reasons have been compiled to comply with section 62 of the NCAT Act 2013". Those reasons for decision did not comply with that section. 
Section 62 of the Act provides:
The section thus establishes a mechanism whereby a party may, within 28 days of being given notice of a decision of the Tribunal, request the Tribunal to provide a written statement of reasons for its decision. The section also expressly provides that nothing prevents the Tribunal from giving oral reasons or a written statement of reasons for a decision even if no request is made under s 62(2). 
Section 62(3) also provides a useful summary of what oral reasons or a written statement of reasons are to contain, namely: (1) the Tribunal's findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based;
The reasoning processes referred to in s 62(3)(c) include the reasoning by which the law was applied to the facts as found to reach all intermediate and ultimate conclusions. It is important to bear in mind, however, that these reasoning processes also encompass the reasoning which led the Tribunal to reach its factual conclusions: why certain evidence was accepted and other evidence rejected; why a factual conclusion was reached; and similar matters. 
Section 62 of the Act is not, however, the sole source of the obligation to give reasons for decisions. There is a common law duty to give reasons "apart from any express requirement of any statute" - Pettitt v Dunkley [1971] 1 NSWLR 376 at 387. The duty applies to the Tribunal as well as to courts - Campbelltown City Council v Vegan [2006] NSWCA 284;  (2006) 67 NSWLR 372 at  [109] ff and the ADT Appeal Panel decision in Supermarkets Pty Limited v Xu [2009] NSWADTAP 28. In Supermarkets Pty Limited, the Appeal Panel of the ADT said at [56]:
There are two bases identified in the authorities for the imposition of this duty. First, it facilitates a litigant, who may be aggrieved, exercising rights he or she may have to appeal and thus ensures that any appeal right is not rendered nugatory or illusive - Pettitt v Dunkley [1971] 1 NSWLR 376 at 387. 
Secondly, reasons are required since a failure to provide sufficient reasons promotes "a sense of grievance" and denies "both the fact and the appearance of justice having been done", thus working a miscarriage of justice: see Keith v Gal  [2013] NSWCA 339 at  [109], citing Mifsud v Campbell  (1991) 21 NSWLR 725 at 728; Beale v Government Insurance Office of New South Wales  (1997) 48 NSWLR 430 at 442. 
A general discussion of reasons for decision in the context of the Tribunal is found in the Appeal Panel's decision in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 [43] to [64]. As part of that discussion the Appeal Panel drew attention to the qualifications on and flexibility in the obligation to give reasons for decision at [57] as follows:
These qualifications or limitations do not, however, provide a justification for failing to meet the requirements of s 62(3) where reasons are given. They do, however, indicate that the extent of the Tribunal's reasons for decision should reflect the nature, subject matter, complexity and importance of the proceedings. Small, short and simple claims do not require elaborate reasons for decision. 
The reasons for decision in the present case require some further comment in addition to the conclusions set out in dealing with the grounds of appeal above. Apart from observations concerning the standard and onus of proof in civil proceedings, the substance of the reasons for decision of the Tribunal below was as follows: (1) A finding that the appellant apparently employed the respondents "to supply and install a staircase";
The finding that the subject matter of the claim related to the supply and installation of a staircase was, as we have noted above, not open on the evidence. The error could have been avoided if the reasons for decision had referred to the evidence upon which the finding as to the subject matter of the claim was based. If this had been done, the Tribunal's attention and the reader's would have been directed to the quotation of 6 August 2013, the photographs and other material, and it is unlikely that the Tribunal would have erroneously concluded that the subject matter of the claim related to the installation of a staircase rather than the installation, sanding and finishing of a timber floor throughout the premises. 
As to the implicit finding that the quotations did not constitute evidence to support the appellant's claim that the work was defective or incomplete, there is no reference to the evidence on which that finding was based nor are the reasoning processes in which the Tribunal engaged to reach this conclusion disclosed. It is not clear whether the quotations were thought to be unsatisfactory because they did not refer to defects or because they were quotations from people who had an interest in being awarded a contract to repair the defective work or complete any incomplete work or because of some other reason. It is not the case that a quotation to rectify or complete work can never be evidence supporting a claim for defective or incomplete work. 
A quotation from a supplier willing to rectify defects or complete incomplete work can, depending on the circumstances and the nature and content of the quotation, constitute evidence of the defects or incomplete work and of the amount required to remedy the defective work or complete any incomplete work. For example, if the person providing the quotation was suitably qualified or experienced, inspected the work, identified defects or incomplete work on that inspection, recorded his or her observations in the quotation and gave a price to rectify or complete the work, it is difficult to understand why that quotation would not provide evidence in support of a claim for defective or incomplete work. The weight to be given to the evidence would, of course, depend upon many factors. Nonetheless, it would be wrong to conclude that simply because an applicant relied only upon a quotation or quotations for the rectification or completion of work that there was no evidence to support the claim that the work was defective or incomplete. 
Of course, a quotation relied upon by a party may be inadequate for these purposes but, if this is to be the Tribunal's conclusion, the reasons for rejecting the quotation must be explained in the reasons for decision. Such an explanation does not have to be lengthy especially in a claim that has only a small monetary value, but some explanation is required. This is what s 62(3) entails when it requires findings of fact to be made referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based and when it requires the reasoning processes that led the Tribunal to its conclusions to be set out. 
Even where a quotation is based upon assumptions as to defective or incomplete work and not the observations of the person giving the quotation, it still may be amount to evidence of an estimate of the cost of rectifying or completing the work and be relevant for that more limited purpose. Whether or not that evidence should be accepted would be a matter for the Tribunal to assess in all the circumstances of the case. 
As to the implicit premise that in order to establish a claim for defective or incomplete work in a home building matter there must be a building inspection report by an independent builder to demonstrate any liability of the respondent, such a premise is wrong. Whilst a building inspection report by an independent builder may be very helpful in establishing liability, such a report is not always necessary in a case such as the present. To suggest that an applicant in a home building matter involving only a small monetary amount must engage an independent builder to provide a building inspection report before the applicant can succeed in his or her claim is also inconsistent with the principles set out in ss 36(1) and (4) which require the Tribunal to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in proceedings and to conduct proceedings so as to facilitate the resolution of the issues in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject matter. 
Nothing the Appeal Panel has said should be taken as finding that the appellant is entitled to succeed with respect to any part of her claim. That will be determined when the proceedings are reheard in the Consumer and Commercial Division. 
############# I'm default separator ##########46
PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE - stay application - Civil and AdministrativeTribunal (NSW) - whether denial of procedural fairness - applicationtoreinstate lease - whether third party should be joined to proceedings - in thecircumstances stay refused.
Before the Tribunal is an application for a stay of the orders for possession granted by the Tribunal in respect of Shop 120a, 'Sorrento - The Waterfront', Homebush Bay ('the premises') which were made on 22 July 2014.
By agreement for lease (undated) made between Payce Properties Pty Ltd (the landlord) as lessor ('the lessor'), and 203 Castlereagh St Pty Ltd ('the lessee') for the above shop ('the shop'), it was agreed that a lease would be granted to the lessee for a period of four years commencing on 18 July 2010 and terminating on 17 July 2014, at a rental of $53,100 per annum, plus GST ('the lease'). The covenants of the lease were guaranteed by Usama Maqableh ('the covenantor'). 
The Tribunal has been provided with documents which are undated and unsigned, but there is no dispute that the lease was entered into by the parties as provided in the agreement for lease, which was made in approximately May 2010, pending completion of the shop premises. It is also not in dispute that the lessee went into possession and occupied the premises pursuant to the terms of the lease, and established the business of a convenience store in the shop. Although it is unexplained, it is not disputed that the lessor is now Skybloo Holdings Pty Ltd.
Clause 17 of the lease relevantly provided as follows:
The lessee was desirous of exercising the option. However, it is common ground that no letter or indication of exercise of the option was provided to the lessor no more than 9 months, and no less than 6 months, before the expiry of the lease; that is, no notification was given by the lessee of its intention to renew the lease between 18 October 2013 and 17 January 2014.
Shortly after 17 January 2014, the lessor notified the lessee of its failure to exercise the option. The lessee took no action at that stage to seek the declaration or orders it now claims.
On 8 May 2014, the lessor entered into an agreement for lease with a third party, namely, Waeil Rustom ('Rustom'). The agreement for lease provided for lease of the shop for a period of five years from 18 July 2014 until 17 July 2019. The Tribunal is informed that Rustom has, pursuant to the terms of his lease, taken possession of the shop.
By application filed on 7 July 2014 (Proceedings COM 14/34929), the lessee commenced proceedings seeking relief, namely: a declaration pursuant to s 72(1)(f)(iii) of the Retail Leases Act 1994 (NSW) ('the RL Act') that the lessor had engaged in conduct against the lessee which was unconscionable, contrary to s 62B of the RL Act, and a claim for damages. In particular, it was claimed that between 18 January 2014 and 1 July 2014, the lessor failed to enter negotiations with the lessee for a new lease, yet entered into a lease with Rustom, knowing that he was the prospective purchaser from the lessee of the business which had been established in the shop by the lessee. The lessee alleged that the lessor acted in bad faith contrary to s 62B(3)(k) of the RL Act in so doing 
This application was set down for first directions on 22 July 2014.
Significantly, no relief was sought in those proceedings to restrain the lessor from entering into a new lease with Rustom.
Despite this deficiency, the Tribunal made orders on 18 July 2014 having the effect of restraining the lessor from entering into a new lease with Rustom, and of preserving the status quo pending the hearing of the lessee's claims for relief. The orders were:
On 18 July 2014 the Tribunal forwarded a notice to the lessee informing of the hearing on 22 July 2014. The notice is headed: 'Notice of Directions Hearing.'
However, on 21 July 2014, namely on the eve of the return for directions of the lessee's application, the lessor filed an 'Application for an Original Decision' entitled 'Retail Leases Request for Interim Order' in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. These proceedings were COM 14/36787 and were listed for the following day, 22 July 2014. Such documents were emailed to the lessee at 4.45pm on 21 July 2014. The orders sought by the lessor are as follows:
On 22 July, the application filed by the lessor came before the Tribunal as did the lessee's application. The lessee was legally represented on 22 July 2014, by Mr Nabil Ajale, as was the lessor. Mr Ajale applied for an adjournment on two bases: namely, firstly that he only had temporary carriage of the matter during the absence of the lessee's agent, Mr Soltan, who was overseas, and that he only received the lessor's application late on the previous day; and secondly, that the matter had only been listed for directions on that day and not for final hearing. 
The Tribunal refused the adjournment. Submissions were then heard over a period of more than three hours. At the conclusion of the hearing, the orders which had been made on 18 July 2014 in favour of the lessee preserving the status quo were set aside, and orders in the form sought by the lessor in its "request for interim order" were granted. The orders were as follows:
Reasons for the decision were provided.
On 28 July 2014 the lessor locked out the lessee and took possession of the shop.
On 31 July the lessee filed a Second Amended Application and Urgent Order Request (Proceedings COM 14/38681) which was listed on 5 August 2014. The lessee sought orders that it be immediately reinstated to the premises, and sought to rely upon three claims (the 'three claims' are set out in detail in paras [26]-[28]), to justify its claim for immediate relief. These claims were not raised at the directions hearing on 22 July 2014 by Mr Ajale. 
The lessor granted possession of the shop to Rustom on or about 4 August 2014, according to the lessee's submissions.
On 5 August 2014, the Tribunal, aware that Rustom now had an interest, directed that he be served, and adjourned the proceedings to 12 August 2014. The orders made were: 
The lessee did not seek an order that Mr Rustom be joined.
On 12 August 2014 the Tribunal declined to make any orders at that time in view of the fact that the orders made on 22 July 2014 could have rendered that decision-maker functus officio, and that the arguments sought to be raised could not now be raised in those proceedings. The Tribunal adjourned those proceedings and they remain adjourned, with the decision being reserved.
On 19 August 2014, the lessee commenced further proceedings (COM 14/42164) under s 53(4) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW), seeking orders that the orders made on 22 July 2014 be set aside, and seeking immediate possession of the premises. Such proceedings were referred to Tribunal Member Paull on 26 August 2014. The Member dismissed the application, finding that there was no irregularity in the way in which the orders were made.
By Notice of Appeal dated 19 August 2014, the lessee appeals the orders made on 22 July 2014 as set out in para [15] above. A stay is also sought, and this is now the subject of the present hearing before the Tribunal.
The lessee submits that it was denied natural justice for the following reasons: (1) it was refused an adjournment in circumstances where the proceedings had been listed on 22 July 2014 only for directions;
The landlord responds that, despite the above, the critical facts were simple, namely: (a) that there was no exercise of the option contained in Cl 17 of the lease; and (b) that the application which it filed was simply the mirror reverse of the orders which would flow if the claim for relief by the lessee was rejected.
The three claims now sought to be relied upon by the lessee are set out hereunder.
The first submission is to the effect that the period in which the lessee was required to give notice of the exercise of the option was extended by 6 weeks. The lessee claims that such extension must follow by virtue of the fact that, following commencement of the lease on 18 July 2010, it was granted a 6 week rent-free fit-out period. In fact, the lessee says that it gave written notice of its intention to exercise the option within the period of 6 weeks following 17 January 2014.
Secondly, the lessee argues that clause 17.1 of the lease provides that 'if' notice were given, it does not provide 'only if'; the lessee seeks to raise an argument that there is a clear distinction.
Third, it is submitted that the declaration and orders made on 22 July 2014 are only interim orders, since the lessor's application only sought such orders.
The lessee also maintains that the lessor engaged in unconscionable conduct. It is claimed that the lessor, in effect, bypassed the tenant, knowing that Rustom was prepared to occupy the shop, and that therefore the lessee was deprived of a sale price of the business to Mr Rustom of approximately $300,000 plus stock valued at $70,000. Accordingly, damages are claimed by the lessee from the lessor arising out of the unconscionable conduct claimed.
The lessor responds asserting that the issues which were before the Tribunal were straightforward. That is, the only issue before the Tribunal on 22 July 2014 was whether notice had been given to exercise the option as required by clause 17.1 of the lease. A document was tendered before the Tribunal in which the lessee acknowledged that notice of exercise of the option had not been provided.
The lessee's three claims were not argued on 22 July 2014. However, they raise matters which might have been put forward had such claims been fully prepared.
No doubt the Tribunal Member considered that, with the concession being made by the lessee's representative that the required notice had not been given, interim relief should be refused because the lessee had no reasonably arguable case, and the inconvenience to the lessor outweighed any vague claim of the lessee. However, this conclusion entirely overlooks the possibility that the lessee could have had submissions to make upon the meaning and interpretation of Cl 17.1 of the lease.
There is no question that the lessee's proceedings were listed on 22 July 2014 for directions only, and that the application by the lessor was made only on the preceding evening. Mr Ajale could not have anticipated that he would be required to provide argument on the day in support of his client's case, nor indeed be ready to defend his client's tenancy, and to deal with the orders sought by the lessor. He could not obtain instructions, and was not prepared for a final hearing.
Any party is entitled to have an opportunity to be heard; that is, to have a hearing where the Tribunal is provided with the benefit of considered arguments by each of the parties. The opportunity to provide a party with a hearing must be a genuine opportunity. In Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Bhardwaj [2002] HCA 11;  (2002) 209 CLR 597, Gaudron and Gummow JJ said at [40]:
In Kioa v West [1985] HCA 81;  (1985) 159 CLR 550, Mason J said at 584:
Despite the lessor's submissions, the fact remains that there may have been issues to be relied upon by the lessee that were not apparent on the simple pleadings. Those matters could have entitled the lessee to some relief. However, the lessee was not given the opportunity of ventilating these matters since the lessee's application was listed for directions only.
As the Tribunal is not now dealing with the merits of the appeal, I make the above observations only because these issues were raised by the lessee's agent during the course of submissions. It would be inappropriate for the Tribunal to make further comment at this stage on this question, as this must abide the hearing of the appeal.
As has been noted above, Rustom has not been joined as a party to the lessee's proceedings. At present, he is in possession of the premises. The effect of the stay sought by the lessee would be to determine Rustom's right to possession of the premises and re-instate the lessee in possession.
In the absence of Rustom being joined to the proceedings, the Tribunal cannot grant a stay, but the lessee's appeal will remain. If successful, this claim could only be for damages and not for possession. Rustom has already taken possession of the premises under a new lease, and unless or until his lease is set aside, he has a legal right to remain in possession. A stay of orders as sought by the lessee could not now be granted because of the intervention of Rustom's rights.
The lessee submits that a claim for damages is an inadequate remedy, and that an order that the lessee be permitted to re-enter is the only appropriate relief: see Lineablu Pty Ltd v St George Sailing Club Ltd  [2004] NSWSC 1199. Whether or not that is so, does not justify the Tribunal making an order effectively nullifying Rustom's rights when he is not a party. And, the lessee would have to establish or show a legal right to possession of the shop to the exclusion of Rustom.
If, upon legal advice, the lessee moves to join in Rustom, and to seek orders that his lease be set aside on some equitable basis, it is not impossible that a claim for possession could be upheld. The lessee might attempt to do so by establishing firstly his right to exercise the option and that it was in fact exercised, and second, that a conspiracy existed between the lessor and Rustom to cause harm to the lessee.
The lessee's application for a stay and reinstatement of the lessee in the shop is refused, because:- (1) Any order could not be enforced in view of the current tenancy;
To give a further opportunity to the lessee to join Rustom, the Tribunal will extend the time for a further 4 weeks. If not availed of, the lessee's claim can only proceed as a claim for damages, subject to success on its appeal.
Accordingly the Tribunal orders that:
############# I'm default separator ##########47
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - application forextension of time in which to appeal - exercise of discretion -appealdismissed.
The appellants are the landlords of premises at Chatswood, in the State of New South Wales ("the premises"). The respondent was a tenant of the premises pursuant to a residential tenancy agreement dated 19 July 2013. The appeal is in respect of a decision made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal on 26 February 2014. On that date, the Tribunal ordered the appellants to pay to the respondent the sum of $1215.60, which had previously been released to the appellants by Rental Bond Services. The Tribunal also ordered Rental Bond Services to pay to the respondent the balance of the bond, which was $1384.52, together with any interest owing.
The appellants wished to appeal against that decision. The Notice of Appeal was filed on 26 March 2014. For the reasons set out below, the Appeal Panel has concluded that the appeal was filed out of time, that time in which to file the appeal should not be extended and that the appeal should be dismissed. 
On 7 February 2014, the respondent to this appeal (the applicant in the original proceedings) lodged an application with the Tribunal seeking an order for payment of the rental bond. The reason for seeking that order was stated to be "lease ended by agreement (which landlord/agent is now disputing)". 
The application was on a Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal application form. However, the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal ceased to exist on 31 December 2013 and the application was at all times an application to the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. 
The application was heard on 26 February 2014. After hearing the matter, the Tribunal relevantly ordered that:
The Tribunal had jurisdiction to make the orders pursuant to s 175(1) of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) (RT Act). 
The Tribunal did not give a written statement of reasons for the decision at the time the orders were made, neither party requested a written statement of reasons pursuant to s 62(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act) and the appellants did not file a transcript of the hearing in accordance with directions made by the Appeal Panel on 30 April 2014. The reasons the Tribunal made the decision are therefore not before the Appeal Panel. However, notes on the Tribunal file indicate that the Tribunal heard evidence that there had been flooding in the premises on 15 November 2013, on 22 November 2013 there had been an offer to consider the contract frustrated and that the respondent vacated the premises on 23 November 2013. The fact that the Tribunal ordered the appellants to refund to the respondent that part of the rental bond which had been paid to them indicates that the Tribunal accepted the respondent's contention that the tenancy agreement had ended by agreement. 
The appellants, who were the respondents in the original proceedings, were represented at the hearing by Mr Tang from Shead Property, the appellant's managing agent. The respondent appeared in person. 
On 26 March 2014, the appellants filed a Notice of Appeal under s 80 of the Act. They did not seek an extension of time in which to appeal or a stay of the original orders. The issue of time is dealt with below. 
The appellants' grounds of appeal as set out in the Notice of Appeal are as follows:
In the Notice of Appeal, the appellants were required to indicate in section 12B of the form whether they were seeking leave to appeal. They indicated that they were not doing so. The requirement for leave to appeal is dealt with in s 80 of the Act, which relevantly provides:
The decision that the appellants are seeking to appeal was a final decision and not an interlocutory or ancillary decision (see the definitions in s 4(1) of the Act). Under s 80(2)(b), the appellants can only appeal as of right from the Tribunal's decision on a question of law. Otherwise, leave to appeal is required under s 80(2)(b). 
Although the appellants indicated that they were not seeking leave to appeal, they filled in other parts of section 12B, specifically 12B i (Decision not fair and equitable) and 12B iii (Evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing). They also filled in one part of section 12B ii (Decision of the Tribunal against the weight of the evidence). Accordingly, the Appeal Panel concludes that the appellants are in fact seeking leave to appeal the Tribunal's decision in accordance with s 80(2)(b) and clause 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act. 
In section 12B i, the appellants state that the decision made by the Tribunal was not fair and equitable because: (i) The Tribunal member only asked the appellants' agent to hand over the rent ledger. The agent was unaware of the need to explain what rent was outstanding and was unprepared for the hearing. Accordingly the agent made a mistake only seeking rent up to 28 November 2013.  (ii) The premises were not re-let until 8 February 2014. (iii) Accordingly, the respondent is responsible for rent from 28 November 2014 [sic] until 19 January 2014. Based on $650 per week, the rent arrears are $4828.57. (iv) On the day the order was made, the appellants' agent did not show the Tenancy Agreement. One of the appellants was present and the Tribunal did not ask him any questions and so he did not have a chance to speak. 
In section 12B ii, the appellants wrote "none" in response to the question "what evidence did you give at the hearing?". They did not answer the next question in that section, which concerns the evidence given by the other party. In response to the question "What decision do you think the Tribunal should have made, given the evidence / documents presented at the original hearing?, the appellants state that the Tribunal should have ordered the respondent to pay rent until 19 January 2014. 
In section 12B iii, the appellants state that the evidence or documents they now seek to produce to the Tribunal are: (i) The tenancy agreement signed by the tenant. (ii) The email which states that the tenant agreed to pay rent to the end of the lease or until a new tenant took over.  (iii) The cleaning and repair bill after the tenant left. 
In response to the question "When did you first become aware of this evidence?" the appellants state that after they spoke to their agent they realized [the agent] made a mistake and that they looked at the tenancy agreement after the order was made. 
On about 16 April 2014 the respondent lodged a Reply to Appeal pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules. In the Reply to Appeal, the respondent states that the appellants require leave to appeal which is opposed as the appeal has no basis and is out of time. The respondent does not object to an application for an extension of time or to the appeal itself being dealt with on the papers. 
On 30 April 2014, the Appeal Panel, constituted by Principal Member Harrowell, made the following directions: (a) A transcript of the hearing and decision at first instance on 26/2/14; (b) All evidence to be relied upon; and (c) Any written submissions. 
On 2 June 2014, the appellants filed a bundle of documents in response to the Appeal Panel's directions. The appellants provided copies of:  (i) The Tribunal's decision of 26 February 2014; (ii) Written submissions; (iii) The tenancy agreement with the respondent; (iv) An email dated 1 November 2014 from the Appellants' managing agent Mr Tang; (v) A rent statement dated 26 November 2013 and  (vi) A residential tenancy agreement with a new tenant, which commenced on 8 February 2014. 
Contrary to the directions, the Appellant's Bundle did not include a transcript of the hearing. 
The email provided in the bundle states that the appellants' tenant (that is, the respondent) "will be breaking his lease". It goes on to state that the tenant "will be responsible for the rent until a new tenant takes over" and that he "will be responsible for all fees & charges incurred with breaking a lease". 
The appellants' submissions relevantly state that: (i) On 1 November 2013, the respondent gave notice to the Appellant's property manager that he would break the lease from 7 December 2013.
In their submissions, the appellants did not address the Reply to Appeal, specifically the respondent's assertion that the appeal was out of time and that he did not agree to an extension of time.
The appeal is an internal appeal as defined in s 80 of the Act. Time periods in which appeals must be filed are set out in Rule 25(4) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules (the Rules). Rule 25(4)(b) states that unless the Tribunal grants an extension of time under s 41 of the Act, an internal appeal against a decision made in residential proceeding must be lodged "within 14 days from the day on which the appellant was notified of the decision or given reasons for the decision (whichever is the later)".
Residential proceedings is defined in Rule 3 of the Rules as including any proceedings allocated to the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal arising under the RT Act. The proceedings before the Tribunal were residential proceedings as the respondent sought an order for payment of the rental bond pursuant to s 175 of the RT Act. 
The Notice of Appeal was filed 28 days after the hearing of the application. This means that the appeal was lodged 14 days out of time. The Notice of Appeal and the Appellants' submissions make it clear that at least one of the appellants was present at the Tribunal when the orders were made and therefore was aware of the orders on the day of the hearing. 
Under s 41 of the Act the Appeal Panel may of its own motion extend the period of time in which to file a Notice of Appeal, even though the relevant period of time for doing so has expired. Pursuant to Rule 8 of the NCAT Rules any such application for an extension of time must be made in writing unless the Tribunal dispenses with that requirement. 
In the interests of expediency, and in order that the matter might properly be dealt with, the Appeal Panel has determined to dispense with the requirement otherwise imposed on the appellants to make their application regarding the extension of time in writing and regard such an application as having been made. Such an approach is consistent with the legislative requirement that the Tribunal act with as little formality as the circumstances of the case permit and without regard to technicalities or legal forms (s 38(4) of the Act) and the requirement that the Tribunal's practice and procedures should be implemented so as to facilitate the resolution of issues between the parties in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject matter of the proceedings (s 36(4) of the Act): Jackson v. NSW Land and Housing Corporation  [2014] NSWCATAP 22 at  [80].
As noted above, the appellants and the respondent consent to the appeal being determined by the Appeal Panel on the papers. In any event, s 50(1)(a) of the Act expressly provides that an application for leave to appeal in a matter such as the present may be dealt with on the papers and the Appeal Panel, to the extent it needs to, has determined to do so.
As noted above, although the parties do not object to an application for an extension of time in which to appeal being dealt with on the papers, the respondent's Reply to Appeal makes it plain that he objects to an extension of time being granted. 
The Appeal Panel is satisfied that the appellants were on notice that an explanation as to why a Notice of Appeal is lodged out of time was required by the contents of the Notice of Reply and the terms of the Notice of Appeal form. Further, the appellants were given an opportunity in the Notice of Appeal form and once the Notice of Reply had been received, to explain why the appeal was not lodged within time and to raise any relevant considerations as to why an extension of time should be granted. They did not do so and in fact incorrectly asserted that they did not require an extension of time. 
The Appeal Panel is satisfied that the parties have had a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered on the application for an extension of time and that the issues for determination can be adequately dealt with in the absence of the parties by considering the written submissions and other documents provided to the Appeal Panel. On these bases, the Appeal Panel considers it appropriate to make an order that an oral hearing of the application for an extension of time be dispensed with under s 50(2) of the Act.
The discretionary power to grant an extension of time under s 41 of the Act, is unfettered but it must be exercised judicially and having regard to s 36 of the Act and the need "to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issue in the proceedings".
The grant of an extension of time is not automatic. The discretion to extend time is given for the sole purpose of enabling the Appeal Panel to do justice between the parties. In order to determine whether the rules will work an injustice, it is necessary to have regard to the history of the proceedings, the conduct of the parties, the nature of the litigation, and the consequences for the parties of the grant or refusal of the application for extension of time. It is also necessary to consider the prospects of the applicant succeeding in the appeal. In order to justify the Appeal Panel extending the time, there must be some material upon which the Appeal Panel can exercise its discretion: see Gallo v Dawson [1990] HCA 30,  93 ALR 479 at  [2] per McHugh J. and the authorities referred to therein. See also Opera Australia Ltd v Carr [1999] NSWADTAP 6 at  [16] and Chand v Rail Corporation of New South Wales No 3 [2010] NSWADTAP 11 at  [20].
Time limits are set to promote the orderly and efficient conduct of proceedings in the Tribunal, to provide certainty for the parties to proceedings, and to achieve finality in litigation. For these reasons, time limits should generally be strictly enforced unless the interests of justice require that the extension be granted.
As set out in Jackson v Land and Housing Corporation at [22], the relevant considerations in deciding whether to grant an extension of time in which to lodge a Notice of Appeal include: (1) The discretion can only be exercised in favour of an applicant upon proof that strict compliance with the rules will work an injustice upon the appellant  Gallo v Dawson  [1990] HCA 30,  93 ALR 479 at  [2], Nanschild v Pratt  [2011] NSWCA 85 at  [38];
In this matter, the length of delay was only 14 days. However, there is a very short period of 14 days in which appeals may be lodged in respect of Residential proceedings. 
As referred to above, in their Notice of Appeal the appellants did not seek an extension of time in which to appeal and therefore did not explain why the application was not lodged within the time limit nor give any information as to what effect granting or not granting the extension would have. The appellants were assisted at the Tribunal by Mr Tang, a real estate agent, and at least one of the appellants was present at the hearing. There is no suggestion in any of the material that the appellants were impeded in any way from lodging their Notice of Appeal within time. The appellants contend that it was apparent on the day of the hearing that their representative had not, in their view, put the appropriate submissions and evidence forward and that the orders made were not to their satisfaction.
Accordingly, there is no basis for the Appeal Panel to be satisfied that the appellant has provided an adequate explanation of the delay in lodging the appeal. The lack of an explanation of the delay weighs against granting an extension of time: Aon Risk Services Australia Limited v Australian National University [2009] HCA 27;  (2009) 239 CLR 175.
As to whether there is any prejudice to either party, the Appeal Panel notes no submission regarding prejudice has been made by either party. However, the respondent is a private individual who has had the benefit of the orders since they were made, the appellants having not sought a stay of those orders. Although there is no specific evidence of prejudice if the respondent were to be required to repay all of any of the bond monies to the appellant, some level of prejudice can be inferred, given the nature of the proceedings. This consideration marginally weighs against extending the time for appeal.
Finally, the Appeal Panel should consider the appellant's prospects of success on any appeal if an extension of time were granted. In short, the appellants contend that the tenancy agreement required further rent to be paid and the respondent contends that the tenancy agreement had ended by agreement. The appellants contend that the decision was not fair and equitable because their agent Mr Tang did not show the tenancy agreement to the Tribunal and because the Tribunal did not ask any questions of the appellant who was present at the hearing. 
In relation to the assertion that Tribunal did not take into account the terms of the tenancy agreement, if the appellants are right in this contention it is consistent with the Tribunal having taken the view that the agreement had come to an end by consent of the parties. Further, as the appellants were represented by their managing agent, there was no reason for the appellant who was present to give evidence, as their representative would have been in a position to explain the basis for any claim the appellants had on the rental bond. 
The appellants also claim that new evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing. The "new evidence" by way of further explanation of the claimed rent owing and the provision of a copy of the residential tenancy agreement is not new evidence in the strict sense in that this evidence was available when the matter was before the Tribunal. 
Furthermore, although the appellants assert that they were not given an opportunity at the Tribunal to properly present their case, it is clear from the Notice of Appeal that it is not a question of new evidence now available that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing, but rather that the appellants assert that Mr Tang, who appeared for them at the Tribunal hearing, did not draw appropriate matters to the attention of the Tribunal and that the appropriate evidence was not put before the Tribunal at that time. There is no suggestion in any of the material before the Appeal Panel that the appellants were not afforded procedural fairness or that they did not have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise make their submissions. Rather, it is contended that Mr Tang failed in his obligation to present the material either at all or in a way that was compelling before the Tribunal and was "unprepared". In the Appeal Panel's view, this is an issue between the appellants and Mr Tang. It is not a basis for concluding that the appeal has merit. 
Given the other considerations which weigh against an extension of time being granted, the Appeal Panel considers that the appellants would have to satisfy the Appeal Panel that their case has more substantial merit than merely being fairly arguable: see Jackson at [35] and the cases cited therein. The appellants have failed to establish such substantial merit, militating against granting an extension of time.
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel has determined that it should not grant the appellants an extension of time in which to appeal.
Consequently, the questions of leave to appeal and where any appeal should be heard do not arise. The appeal itself should be dismissed, being out of time.
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel makes the following orders:  (1) That an oral hearing of the application for an extension of time in which to appeal be dispensed with under s 50(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW).
############# I'm default separator ##########48
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - application forextension of time to file notice of appeal - Civil and Administrative TribunalAct 2013 (NSW), s 41 - inadequate explanation for significant delay - lowprospects of success -prejudice to the respondent if leave granted - applicationrefused.
This is an application pursuant to s 41 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act) to extend time for the lodging of a Notice of Appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. 
The original decision of the Tribunal was delivered on 4 February 2014. The application concerned a claim for payment of money arising from damage by fire to a vehicle owned by Mr Bersich, the appellant, which he alleged was left in the care and custody of the respondent, Quinlan Bulk Pty Ltd T/AS Quinlan Repairs, as bailee. At that time, the application was dismissed. 
By reason of cl 25 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 an internal appeal from a decision of the Tribunal must be lodged within 28 days from the day on which the appellant was notified of the decision to be appealed or given reasons for the decision (whichever is the later). 
On the notice of appeal in this matter, the appellant has indicated that he received notice of the decision on 7 February 2014. The notice of appeal was lodged on 23 June 2014. It is therefore some 4 and a half months out of time.
Whist the notice of appeal is not entirely clear, the hearing proceeded on the basis that the appellant was seeking leave to appeal from the original decision. As the original decision was one of the Consumer and Commercial Division, unless the appeal is on a question of law, the ability to grant leave to appeal is subject to the Appeal Panel's being satisfied that the appellant might have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on one or more of 3 specified grounds: see cl 12 of Sch 4 to the Act.
The notice of appeal in this matter was not, however, the first time that the appellant had sought to challenge the decision of the Tribunal. On 24 February 2014, the appellant lodged an application for rehearing pursuant to s 68 of the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (the CTTT Act). Neither party contended that such a course was not open and, in the light of cl 7(3) of Sch 1 to the Act, the Appeal Panel was content to proceed on the basis that an application could be made under s 68 in a case such as the present which involved "unheard proceedings" within the meaning of clause 7. 
On 19 March 2014, the application for a rehearing was refused by Member Gray, as delegate of the Deputy President. We will refer in more detail to this application, and the consequences of its refusal, below.
On the notice of appeal in this matter, the appellant has indicated that the date of the decision appealed from was "21 March 2014". It is apparent that this is the date of the letter notifying the parties of the decision refusing the application for a rehearing. As we have noted above, the relevant date for the purposes of this application for an extension of time in which to appeal from the original decision made on 4 February 2014, was 7 February 2014, being the date on which the appellant was notified of the original decision of the Tribunal.
On 13 August 2014, the Appeal Panel made the following orders and directions for the purposes of the preparation of this application for hearing: (1) Leave be granted to Mr Quinlan to appear for and represent the respondent in this matter.
For the purposes of the application before us, the following material was relied on by the appellant: (a) Notice of Appeal;
The respondent sought to rely on a reply to appeal dated 2 September 2014. Attached to that document was a document titled "Response to Rehearing Application" dated 11 March 2014, a document titled: "Submissions as to an Extension of Time" and an invoice for fees from the respondent's solicitors. As can be seen from the directions made by the Appeal Panel on 13 August 2014, this material was served late. There was no proper explanation for the respondent's failure to comply with the directions. The appellant, who appeared by telephone for this application, had not been served with a copy of this material. Had he been present at the hearing, any prejudice caused to him by the failure to comply with the directions may have been able to be cured by him being provided with a copy and having a short time in which to consider it. However, in the circumstances of him appearing by telephone, this could not be done and we determined that the respondent should not be permitted to rely on this material at this hearing. We have not had regard to that material.
Section 41 of the Act provides:
The principles to be applied by the Appeal Panel on applications for an extension of time by which to appeal were considered in Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 22. It is convenient to set out the relevant passages of the Appeal Panel's reasons in that matter:
The appellant contended that the delay in his seeking to appeal the original decision was, in essence, because he had been given incorrect information and advice about the difference between an application for a rehearing and an appeal. He said that when he filed his application for a rehearing, he thought he was really filing an appeal and that was what he intended to do. He said he was given the wrong papers at the Penrith registry of the Tribunal. 
We have already observed that the application for rehearing was filed within the 28 days after the Appellant had been notified of the original decision. The Appellant accepted that for the purposes of preparing material for the application for the rehearing, he had the benefit of legal advice. His solicitors had prepared for him a document titled: "Michael Bersich Appeal Points" which was attached to the application for a rehearing. We will consider that document in more detail below.
The Appellant said that he received notice of the decision of the Tribunal refusing his application for a rehearing on 21 March 2014. The notice of appeal the subject of this application was not lodged, however, until 23 June 2014.
In his statutory declaration (to which Mr Quinlan, appearing for the respondent had no objection), the appellant recites the circumstances of his taking legal advice after the original decision. He refers, as he did in his oral submissions, to being given a form by registry staff having told them he wanted to appeal. 
When he received the notification in March 2014 advising that his application for a rehearing had been unsuccessful, he sought further legal advice. He said in oral submissions that he sought an appointment to seek that advice a week or so after he had received the notice of the decision. He said that it took another week before he could see the solicitor. The solicitors asked for his complete file and he gave that to them with the letter from the Tribunal notifying him of the decision to refuse his application for rehearing. In answer to questions from the Appeal Panel, he accepted that by the first half of April, he had sought and obtained legal advice following notification that his application for a rehearing had been refused. He said any delay from then until when he lodged the notice of appeal we because he was waiting for the solicitors to complete their review of the material.
The appellant accepted in oral submissions that he knew there was a time limit for the filing of his notice of appeal. 
In his statutory declaration the appellant states that he accepts that the Tribunal has rejected his application for a rehearing on the correct grounds. At this point the Panel should note that this appears to have involved a misunderstanding on the appellant's part. During submissions, he conveyed that he thought the rehearing application had been rejected because he had used the wrong form or made the wrong type of application. This is not correct. The reason why the rehearing application was rejected was stated by the Tribunal on 21 March 2014 to be as follows:
He says that it was not until he had a conversation with registry staff on 13 June 2014 that he became aware that he had not, in fact, appealed the original decision. 
The appellant submitted that if he was granted an extension of time to appeal, the material contained in the document also titled "Michael Bersich Appeal Points" attached to his notice of appeal showed that the original decision was wrong and that he had good prospects of winning the appeal. He focussed particularly on what he believed to have been an error by the Tribunal in its original decision in refusing to pay enough weight to the medical evidence he placed before it.
The appellant appeared to accept that there may be some prejudice, in the sense of unfairness, to the respondent if he was now allowed to appeal. However, he said that both he and the respondent had incurred legal costs and that he has lost a significant asset which he has owned for 20 years and cannot replace.
The appellant said that if the time limit for the lodging of his appeal as set out in the rules was adhered to, he would suffer an injustice because he always wanted to appeal and it was because he got the wrong advice from the registry staff and the delay of his solicitors that he has not complied with the applicable time limit.
Mr Quinlan made brief oral submissions as to why the application for an extension of time should be refused. He said that the Tribunal had originally made the right decision. He said that both parties had put all of the evidence they wanted to rely on before it at the original hearing. He said that the appellant had already tried to have the original decision reversed in his application for a rehearing (which he too thought was an appeal). He had engaged solicitors for that application and they had prepared the document titled :"Response to Rehearing Application" dated 11 March 2014. 
The respondent submitted that the appellant was seeking to now rely on the same or very similar "points of appeal" that he relied on in the application for a rehearing. He said he had been put to expense and inconvenience in having to get files from archive, engage solicitors again and take time off work to attend the hearing before the Appeal Panel.
He submitted that the appellant had not put on any new evidence by a valuer or assessor to dispute the findings of the Tribunal in the original decision as to the value of the motorhome. He submitted that everything had been dealt with properly by the Tribunal and the appellant should not be able to have another hearing.
From the passages we have referred to above from Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation, in considering the application for an extension of time we are required to consider: (a) (a) the length of the delay;
As to the length of the delay, from the time that the Appellant was notified of the original decision, there is a delay of almost 4 and a half months before he lodged the notice of appeal. Even from the time of the appellant's being notified of the refusal of the application for rehearing on about 21 March 2014 there is a delay of 3 months before the appellant lodged the notice of appeal. These delays are not insignificant.
Further, the appellant has not provided any adequate explanation for the delay. He accepted that he knew that there were time limits in which to file documents for an appeal. Even if it can be accepted that his misapprehension as to the nature of the application for a rehearing can explain the delay up until he was notified of that decision, about which we have some doubt, there is no adequate explanation for the delay from that time (about 21 March 2014) until the lodging of the notice of appeal on 23 June 2014. He had consulted solicitors by mid-April. He said they had delayed in finalising their advice to him but there was no reason why he could not have required or asked them to finalise matters more quickly. He apparently did not do so. 
We have come to the conclusion that the appellant has not provided any satisfactory explanation for the delay in seeking to appeal the original decision. He had sought legal advice. In so far as he seeks to blame his solicitors for the delay, we do not accept that, on the material before us, the delay can lay solely at the feet of his solicitors. The appellant was aware of time limits for taking steps to challenge the original decision. He did not take proper steps to ensure he complied with those time limits. Most tellingly, he has no explanation (other than to blame the solicitors) for the delay from the time he took legal advice after he became aware of the refusal of his application for rehearing (which was by mid-April) to the lodging of the notice of appeal in June. 
The length of the delay and the absence of a satisfactory explanation weigh against granting the extension of time sought. 
In considering this aspect of whether the appellant is entitled to an extension of time, we are conscious of the history of the proceedings, including the application for a rehearing and the determination of that application. That application was made pursuant to s 68 of the CTTT Act. Subsections (1) and (2) of that section provided:
Those provisions in s 68 set out substantially the same requirements that a party seeking leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal must establish pursuant to clause 12 of schedule 4 of the Act which provides, in part:
In the present case, the appellant has made an application for rehearing and that application has been determined on the merits. 
He had placed before the Tribunal on the application for rehearing a document titled: "Michael Bersich Appeal Points". This document was prepared with the assistance of his solicitors. It lists 14 numbered paragraphs of reasons why the appellant should have been successful in the original application. The respondent also made submissions on the rehearing application. There is nothing to suggest, and the appellant does not submit, that those matters were not considered by the Tribunal member in determining the application for a rehearing. 
The appellant's notice of appeal is clear that he is seeking leave to appeal and it was not in dispute that the appeal was from the original decision, despite the notice of appeal being somewhat confusing in this latter regard. As the Appeal Panel understood the appellant's submissions, he was not raising any error of law by the Tribunal below but rather his grounds of appeal related to how the evidence before the Tribunal below had been assessed and weighed. Accordingly, in considering the appellant's prospects of success we are to consider what are the prospects of his obtaining leave to appeal from the original decision. 
The principles applicable to the Appeal Panel considering whether to grant leave to appeal, particularly from decisions of the Consumer and Commercial Division, were set out in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [65]- [84]. Importantly for present purposes, in the case of an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, under cl 12 of Sch 4 of the Act, the Appeal Panel's discretion to grant leave is only enlivened if the Panel is satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because (f) (a) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was not fair and equitable; or
As we have observed, the requirements of cl 12 of Sch 4 to the Act are materially the same as those considered by the Tribunal when considering the appellant's application for a rehearing under s 68 of the CTTT Act. That application was refused on the basis that the appellant had not established that he may have suffered a substantial injustice.
Before us, the appellant relies on another document titled: "Michael Bersich Appeal Points". It contains 14 numbered paragraphs setting out why the appellant ought to have succeeded before the Tribunal in the original application. This document is strikingly similar, in fact almost identical, to the document we referred to above which was relied upon in the application for rehearing. It is really in the form of submissions. The appellant also put before us some photocopy pages of buses/motorhomes for sale, apparently going to the quantum of his loss, however, that material was of not said to be fresh evidence falling within cl 12(1)(c) of Sch 4 to the Act and its relevance to any other issue on this application was not apparent. Apart from that material, he has not put any additional evidence before the Appeal Panel on which we could assess his prospects of success. 
Having regard to these matters and in the light of the Tribunal's earlier rejection of his rehearing application, the appellant's prospects of success on the application for leave to appeal are poor. We do not believe that it can be concluded that he has a fairly arguable case that he might have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice.
There is, consequently, no support for the granting of an extension of time to be derived from this consideration. 
We accept also that there would be prejudice to the respondent should the appellant be granted the extension of time. The respondent has had to defend the original application brought against it. It then resisted the application for rehearing. It sought and obtained legal assistance for that application. Having successfully resisted both applications and after the expiration of the period in which to lodge an appeal, it was entitled to think that the matter was concluded. 
Mr Quinlan noted he had to take time away from work to prepare for and attend the hearings. He needed to keep his company's insurer informed. All of these matters have placed a burden on the respondent. To grant an extension of time in which to appeal would only increase that burden. 
This consideration also weighs against granting the appellant an extension of time. 
In considering whether or not to extend the time to appeal, we are also required to consider whether strict compliance with the time limits set by the rules would work an injustice upon the appellant: Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation, supra at [22]. In the circumstances where he has already had a full hearing at first instance, and the determination of an application for a rehearing which required the consideration and application of substantially the same principles as he would have to satisfy if he was to obtain leave to appeal, we do not think it can be said that strict compliance with the rules concerning time limits in which to appeal works an injustice upon the appellant in the present case.
Furthermore, it must be remembered that the guiding principles to be considered when applying the provisions of the Act is that the Tribunal is to resolve the real issues in proceedings justly, quickly and cheaply and with as little formality as possible. In this case, we do not believe those ends would be served by granting the appellant the extension of time he seeks.
In all these circumstances, the Appeal Panel concludes that the appellant's application for an extension of time in which to lodge his notice of appeal should be rejected. 
The orders we make are as follows: (1) The application for an extension of time in which to file the Notice of Appeal dated 23 June 2014 is refused.
############# I'm default separator ##########49
Review of decision under Births, Deaths and Marriages Act 1995 - merits ofappeal against stay and of cross appeal - costs
This decision deals with an application by the Second Respondent/Cross Appellant in appeal proceedings for an order that the three Appellants (which are also Cross Respondents) pay his costs of these proceedings.
The three Appellants/Cross Respondents are insurance companies. Henceforth, they will be referred to as 'the insurers'. The First Respondent/Fourth Cross Respondent is the Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages ('the Registrar'). The Second Respondent/Cross Appellant, Sergey Gerasimov ('the executor'), is the executor named in the will of Vladimir Ivanovich Safronov.
The decision under appeal ('the Tribunal's decision') was given in the General Division of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (hereafter 'the Tribunal') by the President of the Tribunal, Judge Kevin O'Connor. It was published on 30 August 2013 and is reported as OnePath Life Limited, Allianz Australia Life Insurance Limited and Suncorp Life and Superannuation Limited v NSW Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages and Gerasimov [2013] NSWADT 196. The principal orders made by the Tribunal comprised the rejection of an objection to jurisdiction that had been made by the executor and an order staying the proceedings pending the resolution of concurrent proceedings in the District Court. 
An appeal by the insurers against the stay order and a cross appeal by the executor challenging the rejection of his objection to jurisdiction were filed on 26 September 2013 and 17 October 2013 respectively. They were heard by an Appeal Panel of the Tribunal on 23 December 2013. Because the order appealed from involved the exercise of an 'interlocutory function' as defined in section 24A of the ADT Act, leave to appeal was required by virtue of section 113(2A). The Panel granted this leave.
On 1 January 2014, the Tribunal was abolished and its functions were taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales ('NCAT'). The decisions taken thereafter in these proceedings are therefore decisions of an Appeal Panel of NCAT. But because the proceedings to which it relates are 'part heard proceedings' as defined in clause 6(1) of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
On 14 February 2014, the Appeal Panel delivered its decision dismissing both the appeal and the cross appeal (OnePath Life Limited, Allianz Australia Life Insurance Limited and Suncorp Life and Superannuation Limited v NSW Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages and Gerasimov [2014] NSWCATAP 3 - 'the appeal decision').
The appeal decision contained no order or direction regarding the costs of the appeal proceedings. But on 18 February 2014 the executor, by letter to the Registrar of NCAT, asked to be heard on the matter of costs. The Registrar then conveyed directions by the Appeal Panel setting a timetable for the filing of submissions on this matter and indicating that it would be decided 'on the papers': i.e., without a hearing. The executor and the insurers filed submissions on 9 April 2014 and 28 April 2014 respectively.
Since the matter in issue in this decision is the costs of appeal proceedings that were initiated in the Tribunal, the Appeal Panel may be constituted by a member of NCAT who was formerly a Deputy President of the Tribunal, sitting alone: see Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 ('the ADT Act'), section 24A(1)(a) and (2)(a).
Full outlines of the somewhat unusual facts of this case may be found in the Tribunal's decision at [1 - 9] and [18 - 22] and in the appeal decision at [7 - 21]. What follows is a brief summary dealing with the matters of significance for the present decision.
On 10 March 2011, the Registrar made an entry in the Births, Deaths and Marriages Register ('the Register'), recording the death of a person named as Vladimir Ivanovich Safronov. Mr Safronov was an Australian citizen of Russian origin. Having been resident in New South Wales for some time, he travelled to Russia in October 2009. The entry in the Register stated that on 7 March 2010 he died at Kharkov in the Ukraine. 
Under the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Act 1995
During February 2011, the executor applied to the Registrar for a death certificate relating to Mr Safronov. The Registrar issued a certificate, dated 19 March 2011, bearing the standard certification that it was a true copy of particulars recorded on the Register. Later that month, the executor notified the insurers of the issue of the certificate and sent them a copy of it.
Each of the insurers had issued a life policy to Mr Safronov during 2007. They were separate policies, each with a death benefit of $400,000. 
When the executor claimed payment of the amount due under each of the policies, the insurers declined his claims. They maintained that documentation that they had obtained from the Ukraine cast serious doubt on the correctness of the documents that the Registrar had received from the Ukraine.
During September 2011, the executor instituted proceedings against the insurers in the District Court. 
In a letter dated 22 November 2012 to the Registrar, the insurers' solicitors stated that findings made by investigators whom they had retained cast doubt on the veracity of the evidence on which the Registrar had relied. They requested 'a review of the decision to issue the Death Certificate pursuant to s 38 of the Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Act 1995'. 
The executor's solicitors subsequently wrote to the Registrar opposing any reopening of the matter.
The Registrar replied to the insurers in a letter to them dated 26 April 2013. He referred to the District Court proceedings between them and the executor and stated that since this Court would need to determine whether or not Mr Safronov was deceased, he did not propose, at this stage, to undertake a review of his decision. He noted that he was authorised to amend the Register so as to reflect any findings made by the Court in due course.
On 23 May 2013, the insurers applied to the Tribunal for a review of the following decisions of the Registrar: (a) his decision to include particulars of Mr Safronov's death on the Register; (b) his decision not to conduct an internal review of this decision under section 53 of the ADT Act; (c) his decision not to conduct an inquiry into this decision under section 44 of the BDMR Act; and (d) (as an alternative to (c)) his failure to make a decision as to whether to conduct such an inquiry.
Subsequently, the District Court proceedings were adjourned pending determination of the insurers' application to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal heard the matter in July and August 2013. The Registrar appeared and stated through his counsel that he would abide any decision that it reached. The executor, who had successfully applied to join the proceedings as the second respondent, opposed the Tribunal's dealing with the insurers' application. He claimed that it was not competent and had no jurisdiction to entertain this application. 
The Tribunal's decision, and indeed the appeal decision, contained a number of references to provisions of the BDMR Act and the ADT Act. These are reproduced in the appeal decision at [29 - 30].
As mentioned earlier, the principal orders in the Tribunal's decision comprised rejection of the executor's objection and an order staying the Tribunal proceedings pending resolution of the concurrent proceedings in the District Court.
The basis of the objection to jurisdiction was a claim that the insurers were not 'interested persons' under the ADT Act and were therefore not entitled to apply under section 53(1) of this Act for an internal review of the Registrar's decision. By virtue of section 55(1)(a) and (b), the right to apply to the Tribunal for review of an administrator's decision was likewise confined to 'interested persons' and was also stated not to be exercisable unless the applicant had 'duly applied for an internal review'.
To a significant extent, this claim by the executor relied on the terms of section 48(1), which required any administrator (such as the Registrar) who has made a reviewable decision to 'take such steps as are reasonable in the circumstances' to give notice of it to 'any interested person'. Further support for the claim could be discerned in the requirement in section 53(2)(d)(ii) that the time limit for lodging an application for internal review should depend (in certain circumstances) on when the applicant was 'notified of the making of' the administrator's decision. The executor argued that since at the time of the Registrar's decision the insurers were not known by him to be 'interested persons', they fell outside the range of persons contemplated as potential applicants in sections 53(1) and 55(1).
As was stated in Order 1 of its decision, the Tribunal rejected the executor's objection to jurisdiction. It held that the term 'interested person' in section 53(1) should not be confined to persons who were known by the Registrar at the time of his decision to be 'interested persons' or to be within any group that might be 'interested persons'. It pointed out that under section 56 of the BDMR Act the right to apply to the Tribunal for a review of a decision by the Registrar was conferred on any person who was 'dissatisfied' with the decision. It also expressed the opinion that the notification to which section 53(2)(d)(ii) of the ADT Act referred could include notification by any means, not just through the process established in section 48(1).
With reference to the insurers' application to the Tribunal for review, the Tribunal considered whether a prerequisite for applying stated in section 55(1)(b) of the ADT Act - namely, that where the person applying was entitled to an internal review of the administrator's decision, the person must have 'duly applied for such a review' - had been satisfied. It held that the letter dated 22 November 2012 from the insurers' solicitors to the Registrar, properly interpreted, did not constitute an application for internal review (even though the Registrar appeared inclined to treat it as such) and that this prerequisite had accordingly not been satisfied. The Tribunal went on to point out, however, that under section 55(3)(b) the Tribunal had a 'dispensing power'. This authorised it to deal with an application for review even though there had been no compliance with section 55(1)(b), so long as it was satisfied that this was 'necessary in order to protect the applicant's interests' and that the application had been made 'within a reasonable time following' the decision in respect of which review was sought.
The Tribunal expressly refrained from deciding whether this 'dispensing power' should be exercised in the insurers' favour. In its decision at [38], it instead declared itself not to be satisfied (responding to an argument put on behalf of the executor) that there would be 'any utility in having the Tribunal proceed at this stage'. Having then referred to the Tribunal's 'wide discretion under section 73 of the ADT Act to manage its business' and to the fact that under the BDMR Act there were 'at least three different facilities for ensuring that the Register is correct', it stated as follows at [41]:-
Section 49 of the BDMR Act, to which the Tribunal referred in this passage, empowers the Registrar (in subsection (1)(a)) to issue a certificate certifying particulars contained in an entry on the Registrar and states in subsection (2) that a certificate so issued is 'admissible in legal proceedings as evidence of: (a) the entry to which the certificate relates, and (b) the facts recorded in the entry'.
It was on these grounds that the Tribunal ordered (in Order 2) that the insurers' application for review should be stayed pending resolution of the District Court proceedings that the executor had instituted against them. It further ordered (in Order 3) that the matter should be re-listed once the outcome of those proceedings was known, adding that if the insurers still wished to proceed with their application, it would hear them 'in relation to the exercise of the discretion under s 55(3) of the ADT Act'.
As already indicated, the Appeal Panel dismissed both the appeal and the cross appeal. With one minor addition to Order 3, it confirmed the Tribunal's orders.
The cross appeal. In its decision, the Appeal Panel dealt first with the executor's objection to the Tribunal's jurisdiction. Like the Tribunal and on similar grounds, it rejected the contention that the category of 'interested persons' under sections 53(1) and 55(1) of the ADT Act must be co-extensive with the category of 'interested persons' to whom administrators were required to give notice of reviewable decisions under section 48(1). It also rejected submissions to the effect that because the Registrar's function was a 'narrow' one of registering certain information, without seeking to resolve disputed issues of fact, the possible use by an executor of a death certificate provided by the Registrar as rebuttable evidence of a death of a person must be insufficient to cause insurers who had issued life insurance policies to be 'persons interested' in his decision to register the death. Further arguments by the executor were that the insurers' 'interest' in this case was only in 'the outcome of the District Court proceedings', and that the insurers were not persons whose interests were immediately and directly affected by the Registrar's decision to register Mr Safronov's death.
The Appeal Panel's rejection of these submissions was chiefly based on two considerations. First, section 56(1) of the BMDR Act stipulated that any person 'dissatisfied' with a decision by the Registrar could apply to the Tribunal for review of it, and by virtue of the definition of 'interested person' in section 4 of the ADT Act, this was the relevant criterion to be applied. Secondly, because the duty imposed by section 48(1) on administrators was only to 'take such steps as are reasonable in the circumstances' to notify 'any interested person', the range of 'interested persons' under this provision should not be regarded as co-extensive with 'interested persons' under section 53(1) or section 55(1)(a). 
The Panel added the following observation at [58]:-
Two subsidiary grounds of the cross appeal were formulated in paragraphs [44] and [45] of the appeal decision as follows:-
The Appeal Panel dismissed these grounds, endorsing submissions by counsel for the insurers which it summarised as follows at [56]:-
The appeal. The principal contention advanced by the insurers was that the two grounds on which the Tribunal had based its stay order (Order 2) were inadequate. It was insufficient, first, simply to treat the lack of 'utility' in 'having the Tribunal proceed at this stage' as a ground for effectively denying relief to the insurers. This was all the more evident because the District Court, unlike the Tribunal, had no power to order the Registrar to correct the Register if it concluded that Mr Safronov's death should not have been registered. Secondly, the Tribunal's finding that the evidentiary effect (under section 49(2) of the BDMR Act) of the death certificate in the District Court proceedings was insufficient to justify the Tribunal's getting 'involved' was flawed, because (a) no evidence had been adduced on this matter, (b) it was not a matter of which judicial notice could be taken, (c) the finding was therefore merely 'speculative' and (d) the Tribunal had not given sufficient reasons for making it.
Broadly in line with the executor's submissions, the Appeal Panel dismissed this contention for the following reasons: (a) the Tribunal's finding as to the lack of 'utility' of the proceedings before it was justifiable because the District Court had wider powers of investigation than either the Tribunal or the Registrar; (b) the Court would in any event have to determine whether Mr Safronov had died as stated in the death certificate; (c) the Tribunal's decision to grant the stay accordingly had the beneficial effect of avoiding delay, duplication of proceedings and an unnecessary escalation of costs; (d) under section 45(2) of the BDMR Act, the District Court, like any court, had power to order the Registrar to correct the Register; (e) the Tribunal's finding as to the evidentiary effect of the death certificate was a 'discretionary judgment' that it was entitled to make; (f) because the ground on which the insurers challenged the certificate was that it had been procured by fraud, they would, in order to succeed, be required to adduce cogent and compelling evidence, which would 'blow away' the presumption arising from section 49(2) of the BDMR Act; and (g) if the registration of Mr Safronov's death were set aside by the Tribunal, the documentary evidence on which the registration had been based could still be tendered by the executor as prima facie evidence of the death.
The appeal decision (at [96]) contained the following further observation on these matters:-
At the appeal hearing, the insurers advanced the following additional arguments: (i) the Tribunal failed to afford them procedural fairness because it did not put them on notice that a stay order might be made; (ii) it erred in ruling that their solicitors' letter dated 22 November 2012 to the Registrar did not constitute an application for internal review; (iii) having expressed the opinion that it should exercise in their favour its discretion under section 55(3) of the ADT Act to permit their application to proceed, it should have heard the application on its merits; and (iv) it had failed to deal with a submission advanced by them that it should remit the matter to the Registrar.
The Appeal Panel gave the following reasons for rejecting these arguments: (i) in written submissions to the Tribunal, the executor had in fact submitted that, as an alternative to dismissing the insurers' application, the Tribunal should adjourn the proceedings until the District Court proceedings had been heard and determined; (ii) the Tribunal's ruling that the insurers had not 'duly applied' for an internal review was correct, particularly in light of the fact that the Registrar, after receiving the letter of 22 November 2012, had not in fact proceeded with any such review; (iii) the Tribunal had clearly stated in its reasons, and confirmed in Order 3, that it had not decided whether to exercise the discretion conferred on it by section 55(3) of the ADT Act in favour of the insurers; and (iv) because it had found that the insurers had not 'duly applied' for an internal review, there was no application before it that it could remit to the Registrar.
The executor correctly based his application for an order for his costs of the appeal on section 88(1A) of the ADT Act. This subsection follows the pronouncement in section 88(1) that 'Each party to proceedings before the Tribunal is to bear the party's own costs in the proceedings, except as provided by this section'. The executor relied on the following provisions within subsection (1A):-
Quoting from Valentino Franchise Pty Ltd v Brookfield Multiplex WS Retail Landowner Pty Ltd (No 2)  [2012] NSWADTAP 40 at  [18], the executor submitted that the criterion established in this subsection constitutes a 'relatively low hurdle', since it will 'take into account the compensatory purpose of an award of costs, which will generally favour the successful party'. He argued also, citing relevant Tribunal cases, that two aspects of these proceedings - namely, that they were appellate proceedings in which the appellants failed and that they were commercial in nature - were factors suggesting that a costs order would be 'fair'. He referred to the complexity of the proceedings, adding that the parties opposing him were three insurers, with their 'attendant resources', and that the existence of concurrent District Court proceedings imposed an additional costs burden on him. 
Relying on dicta of an Appeal Panel of the Tribunal in Jonamill Pty Ltd v Alramon Pty Ltd (No 2)  [2010] NSWADTAP 3 at  [47 - 49], the executor contended further that because there was 'a substantial disparity between the relative strengths of the parties' claims' his application for costs attracted the operation of paragraph (c) of section 88(1A). In support of this contention, he argued as follows: (a) the insurers' application for review was 'fundamentally misconceived' because, as both the Tribunal and the Appeal Panel had found, they had not 'duly applied' for an internal review; (b) the insurers had been notified of the issue of the death certificate as early as March 2011, but did not seek any form of review by the Registrar until November 2012; (c) the Appeal Panel had rejected the insurers' submissions summarised above in subparagraphs (iii) and (iv) of paragraph [40]; (d) for the reasons set out above at [38], notably in subparagraph (c), it had held that the Tribunal had not erred in deciding in its discretion to stay the proceedings; and (e) it had made the observation quoted above at [39]. 
The brief submissions filed by the insurers treated the executor's application as being for his costs of the Tribunal proceedings as well his costs of the proceedings before the Appeal Panel. This appears from the nature of some of the arguments advanced and from the submission in paragraph 10 (the final paragraph) that 'in the alternative... the usual order should be made, namely that each party bearing (sic) their own costs of the hearing before the President below and of this Appeal'. It is however clear, particularly from the executor's letter to the Registrar of NCAT asking to be heard on costs (a copy of which was sent to the insurers' solicitors), that the only costs applied for were those relating to the appeal proceedings.
The arguments in the insurers' submissions that pertained to these costs specifically were as follows: (a) a party seeking an order for costs under section 88(1A) of the ADT Act bears the onus of showing that such an order would be 'fair'; (b) the executor had been 'wholly unsuccessful' in claiming in his cross appeal that the insurers were not 'interested persons'; and (c) he had been similarly unsuccessful in claiming that they had not 'duly applied' for an internal review.
Other arguments in these submissions were or might have been relevant to the matter of costs at first instance only. An example is the argument (put in paragraph 6) that the Tribunal had merely stayed the proceedings before it, as opposed to dismissing them, it could not be said that the executor had been successful in his attempt to have them dismissed. This consideration is not relevant to the matter of the costs of an appeal focusing on the correctness of the stay order.
The foregoing outline of the proceedings at first instance and on appeal is comparatively lengthy because they involved arguments from both parties on numerous distinct issues and the merits of these arguments varied widely. This aspect of them is of prime importance when evaluating the executor's submission that there was 'a substantial disparity between the relative strengths of the parties' claims'.
The arguments of the appellant insurers constituting what is labelled above (at [37]) as their 'principal contention' were not wholly without merit. The main question at issue - whether the Tribunal should proceed to determine the insurers' application while the District Court proceedings remained in abeyance (see [20] above), or should adjourn its proceedings on the assumption that the Court would then hear and determine the claim brought by the insurer - was of an unfamiliar kind and called for evaluation of a number of considerations. The Tribunal did not in fact refer to most of these considerations, even though some of them were set out in the written submissions put before it by the executor. 
Accordingly, one specific argument put to the Appeal Panel in support of the insurers' 'principal contention' clearly had merit. As summarised above in subparagraph (d) of [37], this was that the Tribunal had not given sufficient reasons for its decision to grant the stay.
On the other hand, once the reasons advanced by the Appeal Panel for upholding the stay are brought into account, it becomes apparent that the Tribunal's decision to grant the stay was entirely justifiable and that continuation of the proceedings before it had distinct disadvantages in the longer term. The prospect of a time-consuming and wasteful duplication of proceedings was evident. The challenge made by the insurers was to the Tribunal's exercise of a discretion. It is well recognised that appeals of this nature must be supported by particularly compelling arguments.
The insurers' 'additional arguments' (see [40] above) were weak ones. Their challenge (see subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph) to the Tribunal's important ruling that they had not 'duly applied' for an internal review under the ADT Act might be thought to fall outside this generalisation. But particularly since their solicitors' letter to the Registrar dated 22 November 2012 appeared to seek a review under a different statute - namely, the BMDR Act - and did not mention the ADT Act or use the phrase 'internal review', the insurers' case on this question must be regarded as significantly flawed. 
For these reasons, there was a 'a substantial disparity between the relative strengths of the parties' claims' in the appeal, considered alone, such as to attract the operation of section 88(1A)(c) of the ADT Act. The executor's claims were substantially stronger than those of the insurers.
The arguments put in support of the executor's cross appeal, outlined above at [32] and [35], were however also weak. The most important of them, relating to the meaning of 'interested persons' in sections 53(1) and 55(1) of the ADT Act, failed to take account of the obviously important consideration that under section 56(1) of the BDMR Act, read in conjunction with section 4 of the ADT Act, any person 'dissatisfied with' as opposed to 'interested in' a decision of the Registrar could seek review in the Tribunal. The two subsidiary arguments could be quickly disposed of.
It follows that there was also 'a substantial disparity between the relative strengths of the parties' claims' in the cross appeal. But in this part of the proceedings, the insurers' claims were substantially stronger than those of the executor.
The matters urged by the executor as relevant under subsection (d) of section 88(1A) - namely, that these proceedings were complex and of a commercial nature and that the costs now being considered relate to unsuccessful appeal proceedings - must be taken into account in relation to both the appeal and the cross appeal. They do not support the executor's case only.
It may however be safely inferred that the latter proceeding was 'triggered' by the former. If the insurers had not appealed, the executor would not have sought to challenge any aspect of the Tribunal's decision. The stay was an order that he had sought in the alternative and was sufficient for his purposes, at least for the time being. In his reasons, set out in the notice of cross appeal, for filing this notice outside the prescribed time limit of 28 days following the Tribunal's decision, the executor made a statement to this effect. He said that the insurers' filing of their notice of appeal, coupled with their filing of a notice of motion in the District Court proceedings seeking a stay of them until their appeal had been decided, had 'made it necessary' for him to institute his cross appeal. The insurers have not sought to challenge this statement.
Taking all these circumstances into account, it is 'fair' that the insurers should pay a significant proportion of the executor's costs of the appeal proceedings. An award covering all of his costs would not be appropriate since he instituted and maintained an unmeritorious cross appeal. The award should be of 75% of the executor's costs.
############# I'm default separator ##########50
Security Industry Act - revocation of security industry licence -application for review - provision entitling Commissioner of Policeto withholdmaterial from licence holder - provision imposing obligation of Tribunal not todisclose existence or content of material- construction of these provisions -constitutionality - obligation of Tribunal to observe rules of natural justice -meaning of'close associate'
In these appeal proceedings, two groups of appellants have appealed against a decision of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal ('the ADT' or 'the Tribunal') affirming decisions of the Respondent, the Commissioner of Police, to revoke licences that the Commissioner had granted under the Security Industry Act 1997
The Appellants in one of the appeals (129003) are AVS Group Australia Pty Ltd (hereafter 'AVSGA') and Tony Sleiman. Their appeal concerns a Master Security Licence that had been issued to AVSGA on 21 October 2006, with Tony Sleiman as the 'nominated person'. The date of expiry shown on this licence was 21 October 2011. 
The Appellants in the other appeal (129004) are AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd (hereafter 'AVSGC') and Peter Sleiman. Their appeal concerns a Master Security Licence that had been issued to AVSGC, with Peter Sleiman as the 'nominated person', and a personal licence that had been issued to Peter Sleiman. The licence to AVSGC was issued on 28 April 2007, with the date of expiry shown to be 28 April 2012. 
Tony and Peter Sleiman are brothers. Henceforth, we will refer to them, as the ADT did, as Tony and Peter respectively. We intend no disrespect through so doing.
The Commissioner's notice revoking the licences held by AVSGC and Peter were served on 23 July 2009. His notice revoking AVSGA's licence was served on 13 August 2009. Each of these two notices bore the date 15 July 2009.
The application by AVSGC and Peter to the Tribunal for review of the Commissioner's decision to revoke their licences was filed on 30 July 2009 (file 093202). The application by AVSGA and Tony for review of the decision to revoke AVSGA's licence was filed on the date on which it had been served, 13 August 2009 (file 093216).
On 13 August 2009, being the day on which the notice of revocation of AVSGA's licence was served, the Tribunal, constituted by Deputy President Hennessy, granted a stay of the notice of revocation of the licences held by AVSGC and by Peter (see AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2009] NSWADT 223 at  [2]). Subsequently, the revocation of AVSGA's licence was also stayed.
Before the substantive hearings of the parties' applications commenced, there were several more interlocutory hearings in the Tribunal and a number of appellate or review proceedings in the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal. Further relevant aspects of these intervening proceedings are outlined below.
The substantive hearings in the Tribunal took place between 8 March 2011 and 30 June 2011. Mr Oliver of counsel, and on some occasions Mr Hughes QC, appeared for the applicants. Mr Lynch SC appeared for the Commissioner. Until the last two hearing days, 29 and 30 June 2011, the two applications were heard separately.
Open hearings took place on eighteen days. During parts of the hearings on those days, members of the public were excluded. During other parts of those hearings, and also during hearings set down on other days, the applicants and their legal representatives were excluded, for reasons that will be explained. On occasions when the latter exclusion applied, Mr Higgins appeared as counsel assisting the Tribunal.
The Tribunal's decision affirming the Commissioner's decisions to revoke the three licences (AVS Group Australia Pty Limited v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2012] NSWADT 1) was delivered on 10 January 2012.
The two Notices of Appeal instituting these appeal proceedings were filed on 23 January 2012. 
On 26 May 2012, an Appeal Panel of the ADT, constituted by its President, Judge K P O'Connor, sitting alone, heard an application by the Respondent Commissioner for AVSGA's appeal to be summarily dismissed, on the ground that AVSGA's master licence had expired on 26 October 2011. In a decision delivered on 13 May 2012 (AVS Group Australia Pty Limited & Tony Sleiman v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force (Respondent's Application) [2012] NSWADTAP 24), the Appeal Panel dismissed this application. Referring to evidence that AVSGA had recently applied for a new licence under the SI Act, with Tony as its nominee, the Appeal Panel held that this continuing interest on their part in operating in the security industry provided sufficient grounds for permitting these appeal proceedings to run their course. 
On 1 January 2014, the ADT was abolished and its functions were taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales ('NCAT'). The appeal proceedings thereupon became 'unheard proceedings' as defined in clause 6(1) of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
The hearing of the appeals occurred over six days, between 14 February and 25 August 2014. Mr Oliver appeared for the Appellants and Mr Lynch SC for the Commissioner. 
On the first of the hearing days, Mr Oliver handed up Further Amended Notices of Appeal setting out the final versions of the grounds of appeal. The parties furnished written outlines of their submissions in chief in the appeals and, pursuant to directions given by the Appeal Panel, Mr Oliver filed written submissions in reply on the Appellants' behalf. 
The appeal hearings on all but the final day took place in open court (except for a few brief periods when members of the public were excluded) and were before the full Appeal Panel (Principal Member Chesterman, Senior Member Fitzgerald and General Member Bolt). Pursuant to provisions of the SI Act that have featured prominently in this litigation, the hearing on 25 August 2014 (which was previously set down for 22 July, but had to be postponed) took place in camera, and in the absence of the Appellants and their legal representatives. This hearing was concerned only with clarifying aspects of a number of exhibits, tendered by the Commissioner, that the Tribunal, on grounds that will be explained shortly, had identified as not to be disclosed to the Appellants without the Commissioner's approval. Since it involved no more than the exercise of an 'interlocutory function', the Panel was constituted by Principal Member Chesterman, sitting alone (see ADT Act, section 24A(2)(a)).
We have decided, after careful consideration, that these appeals must be dismissed. In our lengthy reasons, we canvass a significant number of questions of principle, most of which have to do with the meaning of key provisions of the SI Act. Paragraph [44] contains a table of contents listing these questions and the numbers of the paragraphs at which they are discussed.
As indicated above, the licences held by AVSGA and AVSGC were 'master licences' and the licence held by Peter was a 'personal' licence. 
At all material times, the classification of licences was the subject of sections 10 to 12 of the SI Act. Only a master licence authorised the holder to employ individuals to carry on security activities. Any person so employed was required to hold a personal licence. Different species of master licence authorised the employment of different numbers of people. The licence issued to AVSGA authorised the employment of 51 or more people. The licence issued to AVSGC, however, authorised its engagement in security industry activities as a 'sole trader' only.
The notices of revocation referred to a number of provisions of the SI Act and the Security Industry Regulation 2007
At the relevant time, these provisions of the SI Act were in the following terms:-
Clause 13, 29 and 34 of the SI Regulation stated, so far as relevant: -
The predecessor to the SI Regulation was the Security Industry Regulation 1998
The notices of revocation also referred to the provisions of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 ('the ADT Act') governing review by the Tribunal of decisions of the Commissioner's decisions made under the SI Act.
A number of provisions of the ADT Act, in the form that they took at the relevant time, may usefully be quoted here. They are sections 4 (part), 38(1), 49(1)-(3), 58(1), 58(2), 58(5), 58(7), 59, 63(1)-(2), 73(1)-(5) (parts), 75(1)-(2), 89(1)-(3) and 89(5):-
The notice revoking the licences held by AVSGC and by Peter. This notice was addressed to Peter, AVSGC and to a second company, ASET Security and Training Pty Ltd. Peter was the nominated person for a licence then held by this company. Because its revocation was not the subject of any review proceedings in the Tribunal, we do not need to refer to it again.
The notice commenced as follows:-
The notice then provided a summary of the terms of sections 26(1A), 15(1)(a), 15(6), 15(7) and 26(1)(d) of the SI Act, together with clause 29 of the SI Regulation. All of these are quoted above. It then pointed out that under section 21 of the Interpretation Act 1987
The notice then stated that the recipients were 'no longer authorised to engage in any security activity in respect of the class of licence revoked', that the licences must be surrendered to police on service of the notice and that failure to do this constitutes an offence under section 31 of the SI Act.
The notice revoking the licence held by AVSGA. This notice was addressed to Tony and to AVSGA. It commenced as follows:-
The notice then provided a summary of the terms of sections 26(1)(b)(iii), 26(1A), 15(1)(a), 15(6), 15(7) and 26(1)(d) of the SI Act, together with clauses 29 and 34 of the SI Regulation. Like the notice just described, it then referred to section 21 of the Interpretation Act 1987
It will be observed that, contrary to some passing observations in the Tribunal's decision, there was no revocation of any licence held by Tony. His role in these proceedings was only as the nominated person for the licence that had been issued to AVSGA.
The Tribunal's decision was accompanied by two sets of reasons. One of these was made available to all the parties and to the public. The other was provided to the Commissioner only, because it included passages falling within the scope of section 29(3)(a) of the SI Act.
The Tribunal held that the Commissioner's decision in the AVSGC proceedings, revoking both the master security licence held by AVSGC and Peter's personal licence, should be affirmed. As stated in its decision at [237], this conclusion was based upon its finding that Peter was not a fit and proper person to hold a licence under the SI Act.
The Tribunal also held that the Commissioner's decision in the AVSGA proceedings, revoking the master security licence held by AVSGA, should be affirmed. As stated in its decision at [235 - 236], this conclusion was based upon two grounds: (a) that AVSGA had had a close associate whom it had failed to disclose to the Commissioner, in breach of a condition attached to its licence; and (b) that this close associate (Peter) was not a fit and proper person to hold a licence under the SI Act.
Although both notices of revocation included a further ground of revocation - namely, that the Commissioner considered that it was not in the public interest for the licence holder(s) to continue to hold a licence - the Tribunal did not determine whether this ground had been made out. Documentary material put before us in the appeal proceedings indicated that during the proceedings before the Tribunal the Commissioner had sought to withdraw this ground.
As indicated earlier, the material handed up to us during the hearing of the appeals included Further Amended Notices of Appeal setting out the final versions of the Grounds of Appeal and written outlines of the submissions of the parties.
Since parts of the Appellants' submissions were marked 'Confidential' , we have determined under section 75(2) of the ADT Act that certain sections of the ensuing reasons should not be released to the public.
In these reasons, we have not dealt with the Grounds of Appeal in the terms or indeed the order in which they were set out in the Further Amended Notices. The reasons for this are as follows. The 'questions of law' which these Notices identify (in conformity with section 113(2)(a) of the ADT Act) as 'arising from the Tribunal's decision' are formulated in a manner which we have found to be both unduly lengthy, occasionally repetitive and, at times, not easily susceptible of interpretation. There are in fact 26 numbered Grounds of Appeal in AVSGC's appeal and 27 in that of AVSGA. Within a significant proportion of these numbered Grounds, there are sub-paragraphs (in one instance, as many as 19 sub-paragraphs) raising or purporting to raise distinct questions of law. In addition, we have been unable to discern any rationale underlying the order in which the questions of law are listed. A further feature of the Further Amended Notices that has made them difficult to deal with is the fact that while most of the Grounds set out are common to both appeals, some are applicable to one only of the two appeals. This has the consequence that some 'common' Grounds have been given different numbers in the two Notices. Finally, there is no simple cross-referencing between the Grounds of Appeal and the 404 paragraphs of the Appellants' submissions in chief. One can ascertain from the submissions which paragraphs apply to each Ground of Appeal, but it is a laborious exercise. 
On account of these considerations, we have chosen not to deal seriatim with each of the questions of law formulated in the Further Amended Notices. After carefully considering the lengthy submissions (written and oral) that were put before us, we have formulated, in our own terms and in an order that we find preferable, the questions of law that we understand to have been raised by the Appellants. In our discussion of each question, we have listed the numbered Ground or Grounds of Appeal in which (on our reading of the Further Amended Notices) the question was raised and we have indicated whether, and if so to what extent, each such Ground has been made out.
Our reasons are unusually lengthy. In part, this is because, as just indicated, the Grounds of Appeal and the submissions supporting them were unusually lengthy. But it is also attributable in large measure to the fact that the provisions of the SI Act on which the dispute between the parties has principally focused - namely, sections 15(6), 15(7) and 29(3) and (to a lesser extent) section 5 - lack clarity in a number of important respects. The first three of these provisions have the effect of preventing the Tribunal from affording complete procedural fairness to licence applicants or holders who apply for review of a decision by the Commissioner denying them a licence or revoking a licence that they already hold. These parties are denied the opportunity to know the case being brought against them and to put evidence and argument in response before the Tribunal. 
So long as the extent to which these provisions restrict the Tribunal's capacity to ensure procedural fairness remains a matter of uncertainty and controversy, long-running and expensive legal battles such as these proceedings exemplify to a high degree are likely to take place. In our respectful opinion, the public interest would benefit significantly from a review of sections 15(6), 15(7) and 29(3) of the SI Act, conducted with the prime objective of ensuring that any future inroads made by this Act on the principles of natural justice are clearly defined. 
We turn now to the substantive issues arising in these appeals. Because they are so numerous and our reasons relating to them are so lengthy, we provide here a brief table of contents. The numbers provided are paragraph numbers:-
It was accepted in the appeal proceedings that by virtue of the operation of section 26(1A), sections 15(6) and 15(7) of the SI Act were to be construed as applying to determinations by the Commissioner as to the revocation of a licence as well as to the granting of a licence.
In broad terms, sections 15(6), 15(7) and 29(3), when read in conjunction with sections 15(5) and 26(1A), had the following effect: (a) they defined a category of material, which we will call 'relevant Criminal Information', to which the Commissioner might have regard for the purpose of determining whether a licence applicant or holder or (in the case of an application for a master licence) a 'close associate' of an applicant or holder was a fit and proper person to hold a licence under the Act; (b) they entitled the Commissioner to decline to give reasons for refusing or revoking a licence if the act of so doing would 'disclose the existence or content' of any relevant Criminal Information to which he had had regard for this purpose; and (c) they imposed two obligations on the Tribunal that applied when the Tribunal was determining an application for review of any decision to refuse to grant a licence or to revoke a licence that was made on the ground of the applicant not being a fit and proper person. 
These obligations were that, in the absence of approval by the Commissioner, the Tribunal (i) was not to 'disclose the existence or content' of any 'criminal intelligence report or other criminal information referred to in section 15(6)' in the reasons for its decision 'or otherwise' and (ii) was required, in order to prevent the disclosure of any such report of other criminal information, to 'receive evidence and hear argument in the absence of the public, the applicant for administrative review, the applicant's representative and any other interested party'.
The statutory description of the material to which we are giving the shorthand name 'relevant Criminal Information' appears in section 15(6) of the SI Act. It comprises the phrase that commences with the words 'criminal intelligence report or other criminal information' and concludes at the end of section 15(6). We will use the broader phrase 'Criminal Information' to mean any 'criminal intelligence report or other criminal information'. 
According to this terminology, 'Criminal Information' is not 'relevant Criminal Information' unless it satisfies the following criteria:-
In line with terminology employed in the Appellants' submissions, we reserve the phrase 'section 15(6) material' for relevant Criminal Information that satisfies a further criterion stated in section 15(6): namely, that it is material to which 'the Commissioner' may have regard for the 'section 15(6) purpose' of 'determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person to hold the class of licence sought by the applicant'. (In this statement, our reasons for putting 'the Commissioner' in quotation marks will be explained shortly.)
As McColl JA observed in her judgment in Commissioner of Police New South Wales v Gray [2009] NSWCA 49;  74 NSWLR 1 (hereafter 'Gray') at [95], the SI Act contains no definition of the statutory concept which we have labelled 'Criminal Information' - that is of the phrase 'criminal intelligence report or other criminal information' where it appears in sections 15(6), 15(7) and 29(3). Earlier in this judgment, however, she expressed the opinion (at [80]) that the 'scheme' established by section 29(3) 'bears some similarity' to those considered by the High Court in two constitutional cases, Gypsy Jokers Motor Cycle Club Incorporated v Commissioner of Police  [2008] HCA 4;  234 CLR 532 and K-Generation Pty Ltd v Liquor Licensing Court [2009] HCA4; [2009] HCA 4;  237 CLR 501. 
The issue in the second of these two cases was the validity of section 28A of the Liquor Licensing Act 1997
In a passage in their joint judgment in K-Generation at [143] (quoted by McColl JA in Gray at [91]), Gummow, Hayne, Heydon, Crennan and Kiefel JJ pointed out at [143] that 'the definition of "criminal intelligence" in s 4 is so drawn that had a challenge been presented by the appellants it would have been for the Licensing Court to be satisfied that facts existed sufficient to found the expectation of the prejudicial consequences spelt out in the definition; or, that the classification was "objectively correct"'.
McColl JA made the following further observations at [93 - 95]:-
In AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police  [2010] NSWCA 81;  78 NSWLR 302 (hereafter 'AVSGC (Court of Appeal)'), Campbell JA (with whom Handley JA agreed) explained as follows the policy underlying the special treatment given to Criminal Information in the SI Act:-
It is appropriate to quote here the following additional passage (at [154]) from Campbell JA's judgment:-
None of the parties to these appeals questioned the applicability of these dicta in these proceedings or the significance of the principle that the question whether any report or information is or is not section 15(6) material is 'capable of objective determination' and falls to be determined by the Tribunal if any claim based on section 29(3) is made.
The Appellants maintained, however, in Appeal Ground 8(a) that a description given by the Tribunal of the potential scope of Criminal Information demonstrated that its view of this concept was unduly broad.
The relevant passage in the Tribunal's decision is at [42 - 45]:-
Mr Oliver submitted that the Tribunal's inclusion of the second item in this list was erroneous. He maintained in his written submissions (at paragraphs 297-298) that the Tribunal's definition of Criminal Information was 'capable of encompassing any information at all'. He added that because criminality was a characteristic of conduct, not of circumstances in which conduct occurs, the Tribunal should instead have directed itself that information was Criminal Information 'if, and only if, it is information about actual or alleged conduct that, regardless of the circumstances in which it actually or allegedly occurs, is criminal conduct'.
In opposing this argument, Mr Lynch cited the following extract from the passage in Campbell JA's judgment in AVSGC (Court of Appeal) at [139] that we have just reproduced:-
We agree with Mr Oliver that if the Tribunal, when including 'the circumstances in which criminal activity... may occur', meant the circumstances in which such activity might possibly occur, this would extend unduly the concept of Criminal Information. Although in the extract just quoted, Campbell JA employed a similarly broad phrase - 'the sorts of circumstances in which criminal activities can arise' - his Honour was not at this point engaged in formulating a definition of Criminal Information. On the other hand, we would regard information about the circumstances in which criminal activity is highly likely to occur as falling at least potentially within the range of Criminal Information. 
When reviewing the Tribunal's determinations as to whether specific items of evidence constituted section 15(6) material, we have paid attention to whether this error in describing the scope of Criminal Information had any impact on these determinations.
To this extent, Appeal Ground 8(a) is made out.
As stated above at [49], one of the criteria to be satisfied if Criminal Information is to qualify as 'relevant Criminal Information' (in the sense in which we are using this term) and therefore potentially as section 15(6) material is that it must be 'held in relation to' the licence applicant or holder.
The Appellants claimed that each of three separate rulings by the Tribunal regarding the scope of the phrase 'held in relation to' was erroneous.
First, in Appeal Ground 8(b), they challenged the correctness of the Tribunal's ruling that Criminal Information includes information about 'the identity of those with whom the individuals involved in criminal activity associate'. This was item 4 in the list set out in paragraph [45] (which we have just quoted).
In his written submissions at [294], Mr Oliver argued as follows. Information that an applicant for or holder of a licence (A) associates with another person (B) is information that is 'held in relation to A' by any person (such as X) who 'holds' it. But the mere fact that B is known or reasonably suspected by X to engage in criminal activity is not enough to warrant classifying the information about his association with A as Criminal Information 'held' by X 'in relation to A'. If this were the case, information held by X to the effect (for instance) that B entrusted the servicing of his motor vehicle to A, a garage owner, would be enough to substantiate a determination that information about B's known or suspected criminal activities was Criminal Information 'held in relation to A'. What mattered in this context, Mr Oliver submitted, was the 'character' of the association between A and B, not the mere fact that some sort of association existed.
In response, Mr Lynch relied again on the passage from Campbell JA's judgment in AVSGC (Court of Appeal) that we have just quoted. This passage included the phrase 'the identity of people involved in criminal activities and the associates of those people' in its description of the kinds of information that the Commissioner commonly acquires.
As with Ground 8(a), our view is that the Tribunal's use of the phrase 'the identity of those with whom the individuals involved in criminal activity associate' in its account of Criminal Information 'held' in relation to an applicant extended the range of this concept unduly. The 'character' (as Mr Oliver submitted), quality or context of the 'association' must also be taken into account. Criminal Information in relation to an applicant for or holder of a licence (A) can, in our opinion, include the identity of a person involved in criminal activity (B) with whom A associates, if one or more of the additional conditions are satisfied; (a) the association exists in contexts where criminal activity has occurred or is likely to occur; (b) the association has continued on a regular basis over a significant period of time; or (c) there is reason to believe that A maintains the association even after having become aware of the criminal activity in which B has engaged.
When reviewing the Tribunal's determinations as to whether specific items of evidence constituted section 15(6) material, we have paid attention to whether this error in describing the scope of Criminal Information had any impact on these determinations.
To this extent, Appeal Ground 8(b) is made out.
Secondly, in Appeal Ground 9 the Appellants claimed that the Tribunal erred through accepting (at [65]) a submission by the Commissioner which it had summarised as follows at [58 - 59]:-
Mr Oliver's argument in his written submissions (at paragraph 292) commenced by acknowledging once more that information that a licence applicant (A) associates with another person (B) is information that is 'held in relation to A' by any person (such as X) who 'holds' it. But he maintained that additional information that B associates with a third person (C) is not information that has any objective connection with A. Accordingly, information regarding that C engages in or is 'associated with' any criminal activity is not Criminal Information 'held' by X 'in relation to A', even if X does 'hold' the information that B associates with C and also associates with A.
Mr Lynch argued that, as will appear below, this ruling by the Tribunal was not one of general application to the proceedings. Instead, it was made in the context of the Tribunal's determination that material bearing on the question whether Peter was a 'close associate' of AVSGA could be section 15(6) material in the AVSGA proceedings. He claimed that in that particular context the ruling was correct.
Our decision on this matter is that, once again, a statement of principle by the Tribunal as to the scope of 'relevant Criminal Information' is unduly broad.
When reviewing the Tribunal's determinations as to whether specific items of evidence constituted section 15(6) material, we have paid attention to whether this error in describing the scope of Criminal Information had any impact on these determinations.
To this extent, Appeal Ground 9 has been made out.
The third matter to be considered under this general heading bore upon a different aspect of the phrase 'held in relation to the applicant' in section 15(6). In Appeal Ground 7, the Appellants claimed that any material 'in respect of which (a) the Commissioner's discretion to disclose the existence or content was subject to the direction and/or approval of any other person or agency, or (b) the Commissioner for any other reason did not enjoy an unfettered discretion to disclose the existence or content, was not material "referred to in section 15(6)" within the meaning of s 29(3) of the SI Act'.
Although some of the arguments advanced on this topic were in a confidential section of Mr Oliver's written submissions, both Appeal Ground 7 itself and Mr Oliver's submissions in reply (which referred briefly to this Ground at paragraphs 579-580) were not confidential documents. Having regard to this, and to the fact that the error of law alleged was one of general principle arising from the terms of a provision of the SI Act, we do not believe that section 29(3) or any other law requires to us to ensure confidentiality for the ensuing discussion of this ground of appeal.
Mr Oliver submitted that the legislature's use of the term 'held' in section 15(6) implied that if any Criminal Information is to be classified as relevant Criminal Information, rendering possible a further classification as 'section 15(6) material', the Commissioner must have an independent and unfettered discretion to determine whether or not its existence or content may be disclosed. In so submitting, he relied on Campbell JA's use of the term 'final say' in the following passage (at [153]) of his Honour's judgment in AVSGC (Court of Appeal):-
In response, Mr Lynch argued that nothing in the SI Act stated or implied that Criminal Information would not be 'held' within the meaning of section 15(6) if the Commissioner's use of that information was subject to the direction or approval of a third party. He suggested that what Campbell JA described as the conferral on the Commissioner of the 'final say' as to the release of information held by him might well have been intended to encourage third parties to supply information to him through permitting him to be able to ensure them that it would not be further disseminated. It would, Mr Lynch submitted, be 'nonsensical' for the legislature to confer upon an authority a general power to control the release of specified information that it held, while simultaneously enacting that it should not have this power when it had acquired the information from a third party on the basis that this party would control any further release of it.
Mr Lynch also referred to two paragraphs in the judgement of Sackville AJA (with whom Allsop P and Handley AJA agreed) in Commissioner of Police v Sleiman and AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd [2011] NSWCA 21;  78 NSWLR 340 (hereafter 'Sleiman (Court of Appeal)'). In this case the Court of Appeal rejected an application for the appointment of a 'special advocate' to represent the interests of the Appellants in the present proceedings at Tribunal hearings from which they were excluded by virtue of section 29(3)(b) of the SI Act. The Court held however that the Tribunal could appoint counsel to assist it in evaluating any Criminal Information relied on at such hearings by the Commissioner.
At [47], Sackville AJA referred to a letter dated 23 April 2010, in which the Commissioner's solicitors, in the course of advising the Appellants' solicitors that the Commissioner had decided not to approve the appointment of a special advocate, stated that one of the reasons was 'the circumstances in which the section 29(3) material was obtained by' the Commissioner. 
At [204], his Honour said:-
Mr Lynch contended that in this passage Sackville AJA clearly contemplated that section 15(6) material could include material that the Commissioner had obtained from a third party subject to undertakings not to disclose it other than in accordance with conditions prescribed by the third party.
In his submissions in reply, Mr Oliver maintained that this passage was strictly obiter and that the point now in issue had not been argued in the Court of Appeal.
In our opinion, the restriction on the scope of section 15(6) material for which Mr Oliver argued is not supported by the language of this provision or of any other part of the SI Act. As Sackville AJA's observations indicate, the term 'held' does not bear the weight that Mr Oliver sought to put on it. We would add that the existence of the Commissioner's right to approve the disclosure of section 15(6) material that he has acquired from a third party is entirely compatible with this outcome, because he would be obliged, in considering whether to grant any such approval, to take full account of any restrictions on disclosure imposed by his obligations to the third party. Finally, the policy arguments advanced by Mr Lynch are persuasive, in our opinion. 
For these reasons, Appeal Ground 7 has not been made out.
Two further Appeal Grounds - 6A(o) (AVSGC) and 6A(q) (AVSGA) - were associated with Ground 7. The question raised in them was whether the Tribunal had erred in law, and consequently denied the Appellants procedural fairness, through failing to inform them whether it had classified as section 15(6) material any relevant Criminal Information of which the Commissioner's discretion to disclose the existence or content was subject to the direction and/or approval of any other agency.
In the light of our conclusion with regard to Appeal Ground 7, we do not see why the Tribunal should be under any such duty. We have decided that the distinction between material that the Commissioner can freely disclose and material whose disclosure is conditional on the approval of a third party is irrelevant for the purpose of deciding whether it is section 15(6) material. We fail to see why the Tribunal should nonetheless have been under a duty to advise the Appellants whether or not it had classified any material within the latter category as section 15(6) material.
For this reason, Appeal Grounds 6A(o) (AVSGC) and 6A(q) (AVSGA) have not been made out.
By 'putative' section 15(6) material, we mean evidentiary material which the Commissioner has claimed to be section 15(6) material but which has not yet been the subject of a ruling to this effect. This question was raised in Appeal Ground 17 and, with reference to a specific exhibit (C18), in Appeal Ground 6A(i).
Mr Oliver argued that at any time when the Tribunal exercised the interlocutory function of determining whether new evidence was relevant Criminal Information which it might have to withhold from the applicant, it was not using, or 'having regard to', this evidence for the section 15(6) purpose: i.e., 'the purpose of determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person to hold the class of licence sought by the applicant'. At this stage, the material was accordingly not section 15(6) material. It therefore did not fall under section 29(3) either, with the consequence that the Tribunal was bound by its obligation of ensuring procedural fairness to disclose it to the applicant. 
In our opinion, this submission directly contradicts well-established principles and practices with regard to claims of confidentiality made in legal proceedings. While deciding whether a claim of this nature is well founded, a court or tribunal must preserve the subject-matter of the claim by ensuring that the material in question remains confidential until a decision about it is reached. To do otherwise is to foreclose the issue adversely against the party making the claim of confidentiality without having investigated the merits of this claim. In our opinion, this conclusion receives support from the following passage (cited by Mr Lynch) in the judgment of Campbell JA in AVSGC (Court of Appeal) at [170]:-
For the foregoing reasons, Appeal Grounds 6A(i) and 17 have not been made out.
Appeal Grounds 6A(j) and 10 raised this matter in different ways. Stated broadly, the question arising from them was whether the Tribunal erred in law, and consequently denied the Appellants procedural fairness, in proceeding on the basis that sections 15(6) and/or 29(3) of the SI Act, properly construed, could require it (unless the Commissioner approved otherwise) to (i) receive what we will call any 'new evidence' tendered by the Commissioner in the absence of the appellants and their legal representatives, (ii) classify this evidence as section 15(6) material and (iii) conceal it in the manner required by section 29(3). 
By 'new evidence', we mean any evidence, whether documentary or given viva voce, to which the Commissioner had previously not had regard for the section 15(6) purpose or at all. 
The Tribunal operated on the basis that (a) the evidence that should be classified as section 15(6) material and concealed in the manner required by section 29(3) could include 'new evidence'; and (b) the period during which it should withhold such evidence from the Appellants should include the period when it was considering whether the evidence was in fact section 15(6) material.
In Appeal Ground 10, it was claimed that a passage in the Tribunal's decision provided an instance of its erroneous approach. The 'C6B documents' to which the Tribunal referred in this passage constituted part of a confidential exhibit. These documents were disclosed to the Appellants with the approval of the Commissioner.
The passage in question (at [72 - 75]) was as follows:-
The Appellants' submissions. During the hearing on 14 February 2014, Mr Oliver succinctly summarised the Appellants' argument on this question as follows (Transcript, p 53, lines 48-49):-
This meant, according to Mr Oliver, that any new evidence received by the Tribunal from the Commissioner could not fall within the ambit of section 29(3), even if it would have constituted section 15(6) material if it had been 'held' by the Commissioner at the time when the decision under review was made.
In seeking to establish this proposition, Mr Oliver invoked subsections (1) and (2) of section 63 of the ADT Act, together with the definition of 'function' in section 4(1) of this Act. He argued that when the operation of section 63(2) was 'notionally read into' section 15(6) of the Act, the result was that the scope of any relevant Criminal Information that could be 'held' by the Tribunal, pursuant to its exercise of the Commissioner's 'functions', was limited to information that the Commissioner 'held'. Furthermore, any evidence that might constitute relevant Criminal Information which the Tribunal received through the exercise of its powers (under section 83 of the ADT Act) to compel witnesses to attend hearings or to answer questions on oath or affirmation could not be section 15(6) material, because no such powers were conferred on the Commissioner. Since such evidence could not be section 15(6) material, it could not be caught by the phrase 'criminal intelligence report or other criminal information referred to in section 15(6)' appearing in section 29(3).
In support of this line of argument, Mr Oliver cited the following extracts from the judgment of Campbell JA in AVSGC (Court of Appeal) at [154 - 155]:-
The Commissioner's submissions. Mr Lynch argued that the phrase 'criminal intelligence report or other criminal information referred to in section 15(6)', as used in section 29(3), covered any information of the kind outlined in section 15(6), not merely information of that kind to which the Commissioner had in fact had regard for the purpose described in section 15(6). In his submission, nothing stated or implied in either of these two provisions required the scope of section 29(3) to be restricted in the manner for which Mr Oliver contended.
Mr Lynch, like Mr Oliver, cited Campbell JA's judgment in AVSGC (Court of Appeal) in support of his argument on this matter. He claimed that the passage on which Mr Oliver relied (at [154 - 155]) was in fact favourable to his own argument. 
Discussion and conclusions. We are not persuaded by Mr Oliver's submissions, for the following reasons. 
During the hearing, we put it to Mr Oliver that if his interpretation of section 63(2) of the ADT Act were correct, it would follow that the powers possessed by the ADT, in the exercise of the extensive review jurisdiction that was conferred on it by numerous statutes, would in every case be limited to the powers of the administrator whose decision it was reviewing. The powers conferred on it by its own governing legislation, the ADT Act - for example, the power under section 83(1) to examine any witness on oath or affirmation - would have no role to play in any proceedings in which it was exercising its review jurisdiction. The flaw in reasoning along these lines is that the phrase 'the Tribunal may exercise all of the functions' within section 63(2) is treated as meaning 'the Tribunal may only exercise the functions'. The natural meaning of this phrase is however that the 'functions' of the administrator are conferred on the Tribunal in addition to the 'functions' conferred on it by the ADT Act.
Mr Oliver's response to this question from the Bench was that it was only in the specific context of sections 15(6) and 29(3) that limitations of this kind on the powers of the Tribunal would exist. But he did not explain why this exception should exist to the general principle that the Tribunal, in reviewing the decision of an administrator, should have available to it the powers expressly conferred on it by the ADT Act.
We agree with Mr Lynch that the passage quoted by Mr Oliver from Campbell JA's judgment in AVSGC (Court of Appeal) does not, on a careful reading, provide support for Mr Oliver's submissions. According to our interpretation, his Honour made the following two points in this passage: (a) when the Commissioner claims that a piece of evidence put before the Tribunal is 'a criminal intelligence report or other criminal information referred to in section 15(6)', the Tribunal - not the Commissioner - must determine whether this claim is made out; and (b) in so doing, it must operate on the basis that the word 'Tribunal' is substituted for 'Commissioner' throughout this provision. It follows from this that the relevant Criminal Information to which it may have regard comprises information held 'in relation to the applicant' by the Tribunal - not by the Commissioner - that satisfies any one of the criteria stated in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c). This proposition appears to be at odds with the proposition advanced by the Appellants.
The question whether 'after-acquired' Criminal Information - i.e., information of this nature acquired by the Commissioner after the making of the decision under review - can be section 15(6) material was in fact decided adversely to the Appellants by an Appeal Panel of the Tribunal in AVS Group Australia Pty Limited v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Force (GD)  [2010] NSWADTAP 26 (hereafter 'AVSGA (Appeal Panel)'). This decision was not the subject of an appeal. At [63 - 68], the Panel said:-
For these reasons, Appeal Grounds 6A(j) and 10 have not been made out.
Appeal Grounds 13 and (indirectly) 6A(m) raised the question whether the Tribunal erred in law, at paragraph [78], in failing to disclose to the Appellants its reasons for classifying as section 15(6) material 'an exhibit, the existence and content of which were at all material times known to the Appellants'.
The Tribunal did not in fact refer to this matter in any way at [78]. At [75], however, it made the following observations, with reference to an exhibit (identified by it as Exhibit C6B) which it had held to constitute section 15(6) material but which had been disclosed in part to the Appellants with the Commissioner's approval:-
We interpret this Appeal Ground, which received little attention in the submissions, as incorporating a claim that material whose existence and content were at all relevant times known to a review applicant could not be section 15(6) material. A claim to this effect is ruled out, in our opinion, by the following dicta of McColl JA in Gray at [102]:-
As we have indicated, Appeal Ground 13 maintained that the Tribunal erroneously failed to disclose to the Appellants its reasons for classifying as section 15(6) material 'an exhibit, the existence and content of which were at all material times known to the Appellants'. The submissions relating to this Ground suggested that either Exhibit C6B (part of which was disclosed to the Appellants) or Exhibit C18 (all of which was disclosed) was the exhibit referred to. At [71 - 78], the Tribunal in fact gave such reasons in relation to each of these exhibits.
Accordingly, Appeal Grounds 6A(m) and 13 are not made out. 
This issue arose in the context of each of the two grounds of revocation of AVSGA's master licence on which the Commissioner explicitly relied during the Tribunal proceedings. It will be recalled that one of these was that because Peter was both a close associate of AVSGA and not fit and proper to hold a licence under the SI Act, AVSGA itself was not a fit and proper person and its licence was accordingly subject to mandatory revocation under sections 15(1), 15(5) and 26(1A) of the SI Act - i.e., on what we will call a 'fitness ground'. The other was that Tony, by not advising the Commissioner that Peter was a close associate of AVSGA, had contravened a condition of AVSGA's licence requiring disclosure of the particulars of any close associate, with the consequence that this licence was subject to revocation under section 26(1)(b)(iii) at the discretion of the Commissioner. 
During the proceedings, the Commissioner successfully argued to the Tribunal that relevant Criminal Information bearing upon the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA was section 15(6) material and that any such material that the Commissioner tendered to the Tribunal fell within the prohibitions on disclosure imposed by section 29(3). 
Appeal Grounds 14(a) and 14(b) challenged the correctness of the Tribunal's endorsement of this proposition and claimed that this error on its part prompted certain further errors in its handling of the proceedings.
In its decision at [48 - 69], the Tribunal summarised the parties' submissions on this proposition and stated its conclusions. This passage was preceded by the following important statement of the meaning that the Tribunal would attribute to the phrase 'section 15(6) material':-
It will be noted that this definition differs from the definition that we have adopted in these reasons. As indicated above at [50], we reserve the phrase 'section 15(6) material' for a narrower range of material, namely, relevant Criminal Information to which the Commissioner or the Tribunal may have regard for the 'section 15(6) purpose' of 'determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person to hold the class of licence sought by the applicant'.
The following extracts from paragraphs [48] to [69] of the Tribunal's decision should be quoted:-
The Appellants' submissions. Mr Oliver's submissions acknowledged that in a case, such as the present, where a master licence is revoked, pursuant to sections 15(1), 15(5) and 26(1A), on a fitness ground, Criminal Information that is held by the Commissioner or by the Tribunal ('standing in the shoes of the Commissioner', pursuant to section 63(2) of the ADT Act) in relation to a close associate may be section 15(6) material if two conditions are satisfied. The first of these was that the material falls within one or more of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this provision. The second was that it must be material to which the Commissioner had regard for the purpose of determining whether the close associate was fit and proper to hold a licence.
Mr Oliver denied, however, that Criminal Information would be section 15(6) material if the purpose for which the Commissioner had regard to it was that of resolving what he called the requisite 'antecedent inquiry' into whether the 'putative' close associate of the licensee was in fact a close associate of the licensee. He argued that it could only be after the Commissioner had made such a determination on reasonable grounds that it could be said that one of the defining requirements of section 15(6) material - namely that the material was 'held in relation to' the licensee - was satisfied. In support of this reasoning, he submitted that the phrase 'each close associate' in section 15(5) should not be interpreted so widely as to include, for example, 'each possible close associate', 'each prospective close associate' or 'each suspected close associate'.
A further contention raised by Mr Oliver relied on the following specific aspect of the SI Act that Mr Lynch did not contest. Revocation of a licence on a fitness ground - i.e., that the licensee, or a close associate of it, is not fit and proper to hold a licence - is mandatory under section 15(1) (when read with sections 15(5) and 26(1A)). On the other hand, revocation on the ground that the licensee has failed to comply with a condition of the licence requiring disclosure of the particulars of a close associate is a matter left to the discretion of the Commissioner, conferred under section 26(1)(b)(iii). 
Mr Oliver argued that 'revocation cannot at the same time be mandatory and discretionary'. It followed, he said, that failure to disclose a close associate could not, without more, be a sufficient reason for satisfaction that a master licensee was not fit and proper to hold a licence. It further followed (if the Tribunal's view expressed at [68] was correct) that the Tribunal, when dealing with an application for review of a revocation of a master licence on a fitness ground, might (a) find this ground unproven, (b) decide nevertheless that the revocation was justifiable on the discretionary ground that the licensee failed to disclose a close associate and (c) in reaching the latter conclusion, have regard to material which it took to be section 15(6) material (and therefore withheld from the applicant) because it had regard to this material when considering the question of fitness and propriety. Such material could not, however, have been withheld from the licensee by the Commissioner under section 15(7) if the sole ground for the Commissioner's revocation of the licence had been the discretionary ground of failure to disclose a close associate.
The Commissioner's submissions. Mr Lynch's written submissions contained the following propositions: (a) evidence to the effect that a licensee associates (in the vernacular sense) with another person (X) is information 'held in relation to' the licensee; (b) relevant Criminal Information about X would or might be relevant to determining whether the licensee was fit and proper to hold a licence; (c) it must therefore be the case that any such Criminal Information that bears upon the question whether X is in fact a close associate of the licensee is relevant in determining whether the licensee is fit and proper to hold a licence; and (d) in any event, failure by a licensee to disclose a close associate is itself a matter going directly to the fitness and propriety of the licensee.
Discussion and conclusions. In our opinion, the general question canvassed in these submissions requires separate discussion depending on which ground or grounds underpin the revocation of a master licence. 
It is useful, in fact, to conduct separate investigations of this question within each of two hypothetical situations: (a) that the sole ground of revocation of AVSGA's licence was a fitness ground (i.e., that Peter, being a close associate of AVSGA, was not fit and proper to hold a licence); and (b) that the sole ground of revocation of AVSGA's licence was that it contravened a condition of its licence by failing to provide particulars of a close associate (Peter) to the Commissioner.
Within the first of these hypothetical scenarios, the Commissioner's finding of the two essential matters - Peter's being a close associate and his being not fit and proper to hold a licence - would lead to mandatory revocation of AVSGA's licence under sections 15(1), 15(5) and 26(1A) of the SI Act. 
As we have indicated, the principal proposition in Mr Oliver's argument was that the question whether Peter was a 'close associate' was an 'antecedent inquiry', to which a positive answer was required before it could be said that any Criminal Information in the Commissioner's possession was 'held in relation to the applicant' (i.e., AVSGA). This followed, he said, from the drafting of subsections (5) and (6) of section 15, including particularly the use of the phrase 'each close associate' in the latter subsection.
We do not see why this should be the case. It appears to us that any evidentiary material in the Commissioner's possession (whether or not it was Criminal Information) that bore on the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA was material 'held in relation to' AVSGA. As we indicated above at [68], Mr Oliver appeared to concede as much in another part of his submissions. Such material would also, of course, be material 'held in relation to' Peter, but that is not relevant here.
No doubt, the incidence of overlap between the concept of Criminal Information and the evidentiary material relevant to determining the issues (such as the 'holding' of a financial interest or of a 'relevant position') that determine whether a person is a 'close associate' as defined in section 5 may not be very great in practice. But there is no logical reason why such evidentiary material could not be Criminal Information. As the present case demonstrates, evidence tending to show that a particular person is a close associate of a licence holder may also be evidence tending to show that a criminal offence has been committed by the licence holder, being the offence, created by section 30 of the SI Act, of breaching a condition of the licence through failing to disclose the existence of a close associate.
On this footing, the Criminal Information to which the Commissioner might 'have regard', 'for the purpose of determining whether the applicant' (AVSGA) was 'a fit and proper person' under section 15(1) to hold a master licence, could include material bearing on the question of whether Peter was a 'close associate' of AVSGA. It was not limited to material relating solely to the accompanying question of whether Peter was 'a fit and proper person' to hold a licence.
This line of reasoning, which we put before both counsel at the appeal hearing, is consistent with parts of the passage from the Tribunal's decision - notably paragraph [67] and the first two sentences of [68] - that we have quoted above.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that if the sole ground of revocation of AVSGA's licence had been that Peter was both a close associate of AVSGA and not fit and proper to hold a licence, Criminal Information bearing on the question of whether Peter was in fact a close associate could be section 15(6) material and could therefore fall within sections 15(7) and 29(3).
We turn now to the second hypothetical situation. This is that the sole ground of revocation of AVSGA's licence was that Tony, by not advising the Commissioner that Peter was a close associate of AVSGA, contravened a condition of AVSGA's licence requiring disclosure of the particulars of any close associate. In consequence, this licence was subject to revocation, at the discretion of the Commissioner, under section 26(1)(b)(iii).
Mr Lynch's submission that failure by a licensee to disclose a close associate is itself a matter going directly to the fitness and propriety of the licensee was, it seems, designed to support the following proposition: any relevant Criminal Information to which the Commissioner had regard in determining the question of 'close association' in this context would be material to which he might have regard for the purpose of determining whether AVSGA was a fit and proper person to hold a licence, and would therefore be section 15(6) material.
We are not persuaded by this proposition. It appears to us that the holder of a master licence whose conduct was in every other way exemplary would not cease to be a fit and proper person to hold the licence merely because it failed, in breach of a condition attached to the licence, to disclose particulars of a close associate to the Commissioner within the relative brief prescribed period of 14 days. There might be a reasonable excuse for this failure (which, as just pointed out, is a criminal offence under section 30 of the SI Act).
More importantly, the purpose of any inquiry preceding exercise of the discretionary power of revocation of a licence under section 26(1)(b)(iii) is that of determining whether the licensee has 'contravened any condition of the licence', not the purpose expressly delineated in section 15(6), i.e., determining whether the licensee is a fit and proper person to hold a licence of the relevant class. For these reasons, we would classify the former ground of revocation as a 'non-fitness ground', not (as Mr Lynch seemed to be arguing) as a fitness ground.
It follows that in this second hypothetical situation, relevant Criminal Information relating to the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA, to which the Commissioner had regard for the purpose of determining whether AVSGA contravened a condition of its licence, would not be section 15(6) material. It would therefore fall outside the scope of sections 15(7) and 29(3).
We observe that the divergence between the outcomes in these two different situations could be said to reflect the distinction, which Mr Oliver emphasised, between the mandatory ground of revocation in section 15(1) (coupled with section 26(1A)) and the discretionary ground in section 26(1)(b)(iii). Our conclusions on this matter were not, however, based on the fact that this distinction exists. We would add, indeed, that we are not persuaded by Mr Oliver's argument that 'revocation cannot be both mandatory and discretionary'. We see no reason why the same factual situation could not provide the basis for revocation of a licence on both a mandatory ground and a discretionary ground.
Our reasoning thus far provides some support for the contention set out in Appeal Grounds 14(a) and 14(b). But it does not establish this Ground, because the Ground is framed in relation to cases, like these proceedings, where both 'fitness' and 'non-fitness' grounds of revocation were relied upon.
The question that we will now consider is whether and if so to what extent, in the circumstances of this case (involving the Commissioner's revocation of AVSGA's licence on both of the grounds that we have been discussing) the provisions of sections 15(7) and 29(3) would apply to any relevant Criminal Information in the Commissioner's possession bearing on the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA. 
This question is far from easy to answer for the following reasons: (a) we have held that such relevant Criminal Information would have been section 15(6) material if the sole ground of revocation had been a fitness ground; (b) we have also held that it would not have been section 15(6) material if the sole ground of revocation had been a non-fitness ground (i.e., that AVSGA had contravened a condition of its licence under which it was obliged, in the circumstance, to disclose that Peter was a close associate); and (c) the basis of the Commissioner's decision to revoke AVSGA's licence was, or included, both of these grounds.
We will also consider this question with reference to revocation on both a fitness ground and a further non-fitness ground of revocation which (to use a neutral phrase) 'came into play' at certain stages of this case: namely, that the Commissioner considered that it was not in the public interest for AVSGA to continue to hold the licence (see the SI Act, section 16(1)(d) and the SI Regulation, clause 29). This Ground was also asserted against AVSGC.
In addition to Appeal Grounds 14(a) and (b), these issues of principle arose directly or indirectly in Appeal Grounds 5A(a), 6A(a), 6A(n), 6A(o), 6A(p) (AVSGA), 12(c) (AVSGA), 14(c), 14(d) (AVSGA), 16, 18, 19 and 20 (AVSGA).
In this latter group of Appeal Grounds, the Appellants' complaint was that the Tribunal failed, in breach of its duty to ensure procedural fairness to them to the fullest extent possible, to direct under section 58(2) of the ADT Act that they should receive a redacted copy of the Commissioner's reasons for revoking their licences which, with respect to the two 'non-fitness' grounds, complied fully with section 49(3) of that Act. 
Grounds 14(a) and 14(b), as we understand them, focused instead on the Tribunal's evident willingness to take account of undisclosed section 15(6) material bearing on the close association question when considering whether or not the non-fitness revocation ground of failing to disclose a close associate was established against AVSGA.
The parties' submissions. The starting-point of Mr Oliver's submissions on this topic was that the question whether any relevant Criminal Information was or was not section 15(6) material must depend, inter alia, on how this Information was used. In this connection, he cited the following dicta of McColl JA in Gray at [101 - 102]:-
This meant, Mr Oliver argued, to the extent that any section 15(6) material was used for a purpose other than a 'section 15(6) purpose' - i.e. for a purpose other than determining whether a licence applicant or holder was a fit and proper person to hold a licence - it would not have the status of section 15(6) material. 
Mr Oliver submitted that two important consequences followed from this, relating respectively to section 15(7) and section 29(3). We will treat these separately.
The situation under section 15(7). According to Mr Oliver, relevant Criminal Information that had been used by the Commissioner for the purpose of determining the fitness and propriety of a licensee and would therefore be section 15(6) material would not fall within the exemption from disclosure in section 15(7), to the extent that he had regard to that Information in deciding to revoke the licence on any non-fitness ground. In fulfilling his obligation to provide reasons for his decision on this ground under section 49 of the ADT Act, the Commissioner would therefore have to disclose any such Information. A course of action available to him in this situation, though not required of him, would be to exclude or redact from the statement of reasons supplied to the licensee under section 49 those reasons that applied solely to his decision to revoke the licence on the fitness ground. 
In this context, Mr Oliver relied on a statement in the Tribunal's decision in AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2009] NSWADT 223. This is a decision of the ADT given early in the AVSGC proceedings by Deputy President Hennessy. It will be recalled that in the Notice of Revocation of the licences held by the applicants in those proceedings (AVSGC, Security and Training Pty Ltd and Peter), the Commissioner had given two reasons: that they were not fit and proper persons to hold a licence and that it was in the public interest that they should cease to hold their licences. The Commissioner admitted that this statement of reasons did not comply with the requirements of section 49(3) of the ADT Act, adding by way of justification that sections 15(6) and 15(7) excused him from compliance. The applicants applied for a direction under section 58(2) of the ADT Act that the Commissioner should provide them with a copy of the statement of reasons that he had lodged in the Tribunal pursuant to section 58(1)(a). 
In its decision at [3], the Tribunal stated:-
The Tribunal's order was to the effect that the Commissioner must lodge in the Tribunal and serve on the applicants (AVSGC, Security and Training Pty Ltd and Peter) a statement of reasons complying with section 49(3) of the ADT Act, but that in providing this statement the Commissioner need not disclose the existence or content of any criminal intelligence report or other criminal information as referred to in section 15(6) of the SI Act. 
The passage on which Mr Oliver relied was at [14 - 15]. He placed particular emphasis on the last sentence of this passage:-
At the appeal hearing, we suggested to Mr Oliver (see Transcript, 18 February 2014, p 55, lines 18 - 27, 38 - 44; p 56, lines 19 - 31) that his interpretation of sections 15(6) and 15(7) would frustrate their evident purpose. It would permit a licence holder whose licence had been revoked to gain access to relevant Criminal Information that clearly qualified as section 15(6) material (because the Commissioner had had regard to it in revoking the licence on a fitness ground), if the Commissioner had also had regard to this material in determining that the licence should be revoked on a non-fitness ground. We suggested that Mr Oliver's line of argument would cause the 'quarantining' of section 15(6) material achieved by these provisions to be eliminated, adding that nothing in their language indicated that this exception to the 'quarantining' of material should exist.
In incorporating this suggestion into his argument, Mr Lynch emphasised that under section 15(7) the Commissioner is exempted from giving 'any reasons' for his decision regarding a licence if the giving of 'those reasons' would disclose the existence or content of any section 15(6) material. He treated the phrase 'those reasons' as referring back to the phrase 'any reasons'.
In his written submissions in reply (at paragraph 525), Mr Oliver maintained that the phrase 'those reasons' should be interpreted in accordance with 'common usage'. He supported this argument by supplying copies of the definitions of 'that' and 'those' in the Macquarie Dictionary. His proposition was as follows:-
In the ensuing paragraphs of his submissions (526 to 528), Mr Oliver argued as follows: (a) the scope of the Commissioner's exemption under section 15(7) was accordingly limited to '"those" from amongst the entirety of his reasons for a reviewable decision to revoke a security licence, the giving of which would disclose the existence and/or content of' relevant Criminal Information 'to which he had regard for the s 15(6) purpose; and (b) 'to the extent that' relevant Criminal Information 'that has been used for a non-s 15(6) purpose is material that has also been used for the s 15(6) purpose, it will always be possible for the Commissioner to give reasons that disclose only the use of that material for the non-s 15(6) purpose, and to do so in a form that avoids disclosing its character as material that has also been used for the s 15(6) purpose'.
The outcome of this interpretation of sections 15(6) and 15(7), as we understand it, would be that in discharging his obligation under section 49 of the ADT Act to give reasons (when requested) for the revocation of a licence, the Commissioner would have to disclose to the licence holder material that met all the specifications of 'section 15(6) material' if this material formed part of his reasons for basing his revocation on a non-fitness ground. Section 15(7) would only exempt him from disclosing that this same material was also used for the 'section 15(6) purpose'.
Mr Oliver argued (in paragraphs 532) that for policy reasons an interpretation along these lines was essential. If instead section 15(6) material were to be wholly 'quarantined' from disclosure (as the Commissioner maintained), the Commissioner would, he said, be able, by the 'device of merely including a fitness and propriety ground as one of several grounds for revocation', to insist in his absolute discretion that his reasons for the revocation remain secret. 
Mr Oliver further submitted that if the Commissioner considered in any particular case involving multiple grounds of revocation that by virtue of this interpretation of the legislation, he would have to disclose section 15(6) material for which he was anxious to maintain confidentiality, he could adopt the expedient of first revoking the licence on the fitness ground only. If this revocation was set aside on review, he could then consider whether to invoke the non-fitness ground, having regard to the fact that in his reasons he would be obliged to disclose this material.
The situation under section 29(3). Mr Oliver's submissions on this matter commenced from the proposition that, as stated above, he purported to derive from Gray: namely, that to the extent that any section 15(6) material was used for a purpose other than a 'section 15(6) purpose' - i.e. for a purpose other than determining whether a licence applicant or holder was a fit and proper person to hold a licence - it would not have the status of section 15(6) material. 
This meant, according to Mr Oliver, that the Tribunal's obligations of non-disclosure under section 29(3) would not apply to such material to the extent that it was 'used' by the Tribunal in reviewing the correctness of the Commissioner's decision to revoke or refuse a licence on a non-fitness ground. In oral submissions (see Transcript, 18 February 2014, p 57, lines 13-20), he said that this did not follow from the opening words of section 29(3) ('In determining... fit and proper person'), but from the same aspects of section 15(6) as controlled the exemption from disclosure under section 15(7). He maintained that any concealment of such material in this situation would have to be authorised by one of the 'ordinary secrecy provisions' of the ADT Act, such as section 58(7), 59 or 75(2).
In this context, Mr Oliver referred to developments in the present proceedings following the decision by Deputy President Hennessy in AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2009] NSWADT 223 (to which we referred at [156]). An Appeal Panel of the Tribunal refused leave to the applicants to appeal against the Tribunal's order in that decision, on the ground that the Court of Appeal's decision in Gray was not relevantly distinguishable. The applicants then appealed to the Supreme Court. 
In his decision dismissing this appeal (AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2009] NSWSC 1391), Davies J held that the Commissioner was under a duty, which could be enforced by an order in the nature of mandamus, to lodge with the Tribunal under section 58(1)(a) of the ADT Act a statement of reasons that was compliant with the requirements of section 49(3) of this Act. His reason for dismissing the appeal was that on account of the operation of section 29(3) of the SI Act an order to this effect would be of no avail to the applicants. 
A further important part of Davies J's decision was a ruling that once administrative review was sought of a decision to refuse or revoke a licence, the Commissioner was no longer bound by an obligation to give reasons for his decision to the applicant under section 49 of the ADT Act. Instead, his obligation was to lodge reasons with the Tribunal under section 58(1)(a) of the ADT Act. The applicant could then seek disclosure of those reasons by applying to the Tribunal under section 58(2) or 58(5). In this event, section 15(7) of the SI Act would no longer be operative. Instead, the scope of permissible disclosure would be limited (except to the extent that the Commissioner approved otherwise) by section 29(3) of the SI Act. 
Mr Oliver submitted that accordingly, in any case where a licence had been revoked on fitness and non-fitness grounds, the appropriate course for the Commissioner, following any application by the licensee to the Tribunal, was to discharge his obligations under section 58(1) of the ADT Act by lodging with the Tribunal a statement of reasons in which the reasons for revocation on the fitness ground were wholly severable from those relating to any non-fitness ground or grounds. This would pave the way for the Tribunal to direct under section 58(2) that a copy of the latter set of reasons be provided to the applicant.
Mr Oliver's further submissions on the impact of section 29(3) in this situation referred to the same policy considerations as he advanced in the context of section 15(7). They included the following passage, at paragraph 532 of his submissions in reply:-
Mr Lynch's argument on this topic essentially replicated his submissions regarding the impact of section 15(7) when a licence has been revoked on both fitness and non-fitness grounds. With regard to Mr Oliver's submission that appropriately redacted copies of reasons could and should be provided to an applicant under section 58(2) of the ADT Act, he pointed out that in AVS Group of Companies Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2009] NSWADT 223 at  [11], Deputy President Hennessy stated that the Tribunal's power in section 58(2) is 'confined to the documents in fact provided to the Tribunal under section 58(1)'.
Discussion and conclusions. We have concluded after careful consideration that the reasoning that we suggested to the parties is correct and requires us to endorse the Commissioner's case on this difficult topic. In our opinion, section 15(6) material must be regarded as 'quarantined' from the Commissioner's disclosure obligations (except to the extent that he approves otherwise) irrespective of its use in any other contexts (such as the revocation of a licence on non-fitness grounds). This outcome accords with the language of the relevant provisions and is also, as we see it, the preferred outcome in policy terms. 
Our reasoning is as follows. Section 15(6) defines what we have called 'section 15(6) material' as relevant Criminal Information to which the Commissioner 'may have regard' for the 'section 15(6) purpose'. The purposive element of that definition imposes a condition of relevance. Material that could not on any view have an evidentiary impact on the fitness and propriety of a licence applicant or holder cannot fall within the category of 'section 15(6) material'. 
Once the range of material within that category has been ascertained, however, nothing in section 15(7) states expressly, or necessarily implies, that the Commissioner's exemption applies to a more limited range of material. The subsection provides that he is 'not... required to give any reasons for not granting a licence if the giving of those reasons [our emphases] would disclose the existence or content of' section 15(6) material. 
Despite Mr Oliver's submission to the contrary, we regard 'any reasons' - being a category of hypothesised 'reasons' - as the only possible antecedent for 'those reasons'. His submission fails on linguistic grounds because neither section 15(6) nor any earlier provision within section 15 uses the term 'reasons' or any equivalent term. We do not see how 'those reasons' in section 15(7), being reasons for a 'decision' of the Commissioner, could be read as referring back to a 'purpose', defined in section 15(6), for which the Commissioner might had regard to certain information, i.e., the 'purpose of determining whether an applicant is a fit and proper person' to hold a licence.
Section 29(3), unlike section 15(7), does contain a phrase expressly limiting the scope of its prohibitions on disclosure of section 15(6) material without the Commissioner's approval. They only apply when the Tribunal is 
It could possibly be argued that when the Commissioner has decided to revoke a licence on (say) one fitness ground and two non-fitness grounds, he has made three decisions, one on each of these grounds, and that it would only be when reviewing the decision on the fitness ground that the Tribunal would be subject to section 29(3). But this is not how the Tribunal's review process is conceived. In section 29(1), for instance, the right of application created is for administrative review of a 'decision' by the Commissioner (refusal or failure to grant a licence; the imposition of a condition; the revocation or suspension of a licence), not of the ground or grounds of any such decisions. In key provisions of the ADT Act relating administrative review - see for example, sections 6(1)(c), 38(1) and 63(1) - it is again the 'decision' by an 'administrator' that is to be reviewed, not the 'ground' or 'grounds' of any such decision.
The important consequence of this for present purposes is that a decision by the Commissioner to revoke a licence on two or more grounds that include a fitness ground falls within the phrase 'decision to... revoke a licence that was made on the ground of the applicant not being a fit and proper person' within section 29(3). The inclusion of non-fitness grounds in the decision does not preclude this outcome.
In the course of oral submissions in the appeal proceedings, Mr Oliver appeared to concede this. On 18 February 2014 (see Transcript, p 57, lines 13-20), he said:-
It follows that when the Tribunal is reviewing a revocation decision based on fitness and non-fitness grounds, the existence of the latter category of grounds does not support an argument that the opening words of section 29(3) release it from the same prohibitions on disclosure of section 15(6) material as would apply if the only ground of revocation had been a fitness ground.
With regard to the policy considerations that were canvassed before us, our chief comment is that the policy reasons underpinning sections 15(7) and 29(3) are just as applicable to cases of revocation on multiple grounds (including a fitness ground) as to cases of revocation on a fitness ground only. They have to do with the perceived need to conceal from applicants and the public at large various forms of Criminal Information for which high importance is accorded to confidentiality.
Mr Oliver's claim that the interpretation of these sections that he opposes would give leeway to the Commissioner to conceal a significant quantity of material by the 'device' of including a fitness ground in a decision to revoke a licence is certainly worthy of consideration. But it must be remembered that, as Campbell JA said in AVSGC (Court of Appeal) at [154] (quoted above at [56]) the Tribunal has an obligation to satisfy itself that the Commissioner does not overuse his powers to withhold material from an applicant, to the detriment of the applicant's case. The approach by the Commissioner that Mr Oliver proposed - revocation on a fitness ground only, followed by revocation on one or more non-fitness grounds if the first revocation is set aside on review - is unsatisfactory, given the length of time that administrative review may take.
For these reasons, our conclusion is that in any case involving the Commissioner's revocation of a licence on a fitness ground, the fact that he also relied on or more non-fitness grounds does not diminish the range of the section 15(6) material that (i) he may claim to be exempt from disclosure by virtue of section 15(7) or (ii) the Tribunal is bound by section 29(3) not to disclose without his approval.
Because we have reached this conclusion, a question that received significant attention in the parties' submissions does not need to be addressed. This is whether during the Tribunal proceedings the Commissioner could withdraw the 'public interest' ground of revocation of the Appellants' licences, as he purported to do, and could therefore maintain that he was no longer under any obligation to provide reasons for this ground of revocation. If, as the Appellants claimed, his purported withdrawal of this ground was ineffective, the consequence of the conclusion that we have reached is that he was still not obliged to provide any reasons for this ground that would disclose section 15(6) material.
For the foregoing reasons, Appeal Grounds 5A(a), 6A(a), 6A(n) (both appeals), 6A(o) (both appeals), 6A(p) (AVSGA), 12(c) (AVSGA), 14(a)-(c), 14(d) (AVSGA), 16, 18, 19 and 20 (AVSGA) have not been made out. We have added 'both appeals' after Grounds 6A(n) and 6A(o) to make it clear that these two Grounds - which confusingly are formulated differently as between the two proceedings - are not made out in either of them.
The Tribunal's disallowance of certain questions put in cross-examination to Mr Cameron Smith was the subject of Appeal Grounds 6A(f), 14(d) (AVSGC), 14(e) (AVSGA), 20(a) (AVSGC) and 21(a) (AVSGA). Mr Smith was the Registrar of the Security Industry Registry. 
These Grounds are conveniently dealt with at this stage of our reasons because one of the questions underlying them - to which we have recently given a positive answer - is whether material relating to Peter's alleged position as a close associate of AVSGA could be section 15(6) material.
During the Tribunal hearing on 31 March 2011, in the course of cross-examination by counsel for AVSGA (Mr Hughes QC), Mr Smith stated that he had conducted enquiries before 7 August 2009 on the question of a close association between Peter and AVSGA, but had not recorded the results of these inquiries in a document. When he was asked where they were recorded, counsel for the Commissioner (Mr Lynch) objected to this question. As Mr Oliver did in his written submissions, we will refer henceforth to this question as 'the first disputed question'. 
Mr Lynch appeared to accept that Mr Smith had indicated that the results of these inquiries were recorded in a database, but maintained his objection to further questioning. Mr Hughes then argued that if indeed these results were recorded in a database, AVSGA would be entitled to apply for a summons for production of a printout of them, to be added to the documents filed in the Tribunal under section 58 of the ADT Act. Mr Lynch responded that any such application would be resisted on the ground of public interest immunity. He also applied for a hearing, in the absence of the Appellants and their representatives, at which he could put before the Tribunal the Commissioner's reasons for objecting to the questions being put to Mr Smith. After this hearing took place, the Tribunal indicated to both parties, in open court, that it would disallow the first disputed question and its reason for so deciding was 'not public interest immunity'.
During the hearing on 6 April 2011, Mr Hughes put to Mr Smith two further questions, which Mr Oliver in his submissions labelled the second and the third 'disputed questions'. They sought answers as to (a) whether Mr Smith believed that if, when investigating the matter of an undisclosed close association between Peter and AVSGA, he had regard to any Criminal Information, the Commissioner would not be required to disclose its existence or content; and (b) whether, in satisfying himself that there had been a breach of a condition of AVSGA's licence by reason of failure to disclose this alleged close association, he had had regard to material that the Commissioner had not provided to the Tribunal pursuant to section 58 of the ADT Act.
Following objections by Mr Lynch, the Tribunal disallowed each of these questions, on the ground that they fell within the scope of its earlier ruling on the first disputed question.
In his submissions to us, Mr Oliver argued that it could be inferred that the Tribunal's disallowance of the first disputed question was based on a finding that this question sought the disclosure of section 15(6) material, which would be in breach of section 29(3). The grounds for this inference were, he said, that the Tribunal indicated that this disallowance was not based on public interest immunity and that, if section 75(2) of the ADT Act had been relied on, the Appellants would have been given the opportunity to make submissions on the matter.
Mr Oliver submitted in relation to each of the three disputed questions that the material to which each question referred could not have been section 15(6) material and was therefore subject to section 29(3), because the context in which Mr Smith was being asked about its use was not that of determining whether AVSGA was a fit and proper person to hold a licence.
This submission must fail because, for reasons that we have just outlined, Criminal Information bearing on the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA was capable of being section 15(6) material. This follows from the consideration that the question whether AVSGA was fit and proper to hold a licence was dependent, in part, on whether or not such a 'close association' existed.
For these reasons, Appeal Grounds 6A(f), 14(d) (AVSGC), 14(e) (AVSGA), 20(a) (AVSGC) and 21(a) (AVSGA) have not been made out.
At certain stages of the proceedings at first instance, the Tribunal made procedural rulings resulting in the concealment of specific information from the Appellants, on the ground that to provide this information would or might result in the 'existence' of section 15(6) material being 'disclosed' to them in breach of section 29(3) of the SI Act. 
The Appellants claimed that this was the apparent basis of the following actions on the Tribunal's part: (a) at a hearing on 3 May 2010 in both proceedings, it refused to direct that they be provided with partially redacted copies of the Commissioner's statement of reasons for the revocation of the Appellants' licences; (b) at the hearing on 6 April 2011 to which we have just referred, it declined to give any reasons for disallowing the three 'disputed questions' put to Mr Smith; and (c) it conducted hearings on 19, 20 and 21 April 2011 at which the Commissioner, but not the Appellants, were present, without directing that the Appellants should be notified that these hearings were to take place.
These matters were raised in Appeal Grounds 6A(b), 12 (AVSGC) and 12(a), (b) and (d) (AVSGA).
The Appellants claimed that the Tribunal erred through not ruling as follows: (i) at the time of these events, both of the Appellants had become aware that there existed material which the Commissioner claimed to be section 15(6) material 'held' by the Tribunal; (ii) it was accordingly impossible that any step taken by the Tribunal would constitute 'disclosure' of the 'existence' of this material, such as would be prohibited by section 29(3); and (iii) each of the three actions outlined in the preceding paragraph constituted a breach by the Tribunal of its obligation under section 73(2) of the ADT Act to adhere to the rules of natural justice.
The parties' submissions. Mr Oliver contended that at the relevant times the applicants in the AVSGC proceedings were aware of the existence of material claimed to be section 15(6) material within those proceedings because the Commissioner had made this known to them at an interlocutory hearing in July 2009. Mr Lynch did not dispute this. 
Mr Oliver claimed that for three reasons the applicants in the AVSGA proceedings were also aware at the relevant times of the existence of material claimed to be section 15(6) material within those proceedings. These reasons were as follows: (1) the notice of revocation of AVSGA's licence was drafted in a manner that would cause these applicants to infer that this was the case; (2) because none of the documents filed by the Commissioner under section 58 of the ADT Act 'went to the substance of' the Commissioner's case based on Peter being both a close associate and not fit and proper to hold a licence, the same inference would be drawn; and (3) at an open interlocutory hearing before the Tribunal on 14 August 2009, counsel for the Commissioner made a statement that gave good grounds for this inference to be drawn.
This statement by counsel (Mr Lynch) was as follows: 'I don't intend to replicate the application I made yesterday, so at this stage we have no evidence to offer.' The application that he had made on the preceding day was an application in the AVSGC proceedings for certain material to be classified as section 15(6) material.
Mr Oliver argued that in consequence of the applicants in both proceedings having been made aware of the existence of material claimed to be section 15(6) material, none of the three actions by the Tribunal of which the Appellants claimed could constitute a 'disclosure' under section 29(3)(b). His underlying proposition was, in essence, that it is not possible to 'disclose' to a person information of which that person has already been made aware.
In support of this proposition, Mr Oliver cited three provisions from New South Wales statutes - the Independent Commission Against Corruption Act 1988
He added that in section 29B(6) of the Australian Crime Commission Act 2002
Mr Oliver also relied on the following passage in Foster v Federal Commissioner of Taxation  [1951] HCA 18;  82 CLR 606 at  [11], relating to a provision of Commonwealth tax legislation requiring full and true disclosure of material facts by a taxpayer:-
Mr Lynch's written submissions included the contentions that the 'knowledge' of the 'existence' of material claimed to be section 15(6) material that the AVSGA applicants claimed to possess at the relevant times was 'more correctly described as a belief'; that the formation of such a 'belief', occurring through a process of inference, was irrelevant to the operation of section 29(3); and that the existence of any such belief by the applicants was insufficient to entitle the Tribunal to make any disclosure prohibited by section 29(3) without the approval of the Commissioner. He argued also that the passage cited by Mr Oliver from Foster was not applicable to the construction of the term 'disclose' in section 29(3) because the question before the High Court was whether the appellant taxpayer had made 'full and true' disclosure as required by the taxing statute.
In his written submissions, Mr Lynch also argued that if the AVSGA applicants were correct in maintaining that at the relevant times they had sufficient knowledge of the existence of section 15(6) material to relieve the Tribunal of its obligation under section 29(3) not to disclose such material's existence, then the Tribunal's insistence that it should not make any order indicating that such material did exist inflicted no prejudice on them. Such an order would only have communicated to them a fact that they already knew.
In oral submissions, Mr Lynch argued that in any case involving revocation of a licence in which an applicant for review received from the Tribunal (under section 58(2) of the ADT Act) a copy of reasons for the revocation that were patently inadequate and inferred from this that the Commissioner had claimed that section 15(6) material existed, this could not of itself constitute 'disclosure' under section 29(3) of the fact that such material existed, thereby enabling the Tribunal to take further steps acknowledging this fact without contravening section 29(3). The reason, he said, was that section 29(3) was premised on the fact that in this situation, inadequate reasons would have to be provided to an applicant.
On this specific matter, Mr Lynch further submitted that a copy of a letter dated 17 September 2009 from the Crown Solicitor to the Registrar showed that in the AVSGA proceedings the Commissioner had taken the step that Mr Oliver argued for. He had both lodged in the Tribunal and served on the AVSGA applicants copies of the reasons relating to the revocation of AVSGA's licence that he did not claim to fall within section 15(6) and had lodged in the Tribunal a further statement of reasons for this revocation which he did claim to include section 15(6) material.
After the appeal hearings, we confirmed from the Tribunal's file that the Commissioner had indeed taken these steps.
In response to Mr Oliver's submission that the Tribunal should have given notice to the AVSGA applicants of the fact that hearings from which they would be excluded were to be held, and also of the dates of these hearings, Mr Lynch argued that even if this submission were correct, it could not be said that the applicants had suffered any prejudice through not having received notice. 
Both parties referred us to three authorities on the interpretation of section 29(3) itself: Gray, AVSGA (Appeal Panel) and Sleiman (Court of Appeal). 
In Gray, the relevant passages in McColl JA's judgment are at [103 - 106]:-
In AVSGA (Appeal Panel), this matter received extended discussion. The question to be determined was whether the Tribunal, in the AVSGA proceedings, erred at a directions hearing on 2 October 2009 in refusing to grant an application by the applicants for the following directions:-
It will be recalled that under section 59 of the ADT Act, an administrator may apply to the Tribunal for an order that he or she should not be required to lodge a copy of a document under section 58.
We have already referred to the Appeal Panel's determination against the applicants on one matter raised in this application: namely whether material put before the Tribunal that the Commissioner did not 'hold' at the time of revocation of AVSGA's licence could be section 15(6) material. 
On the issue as to what constitutes 'disclosure' under section 29(3), the Appeal Panel summarised the Commissioner's argument at [36]:-
The Panel's conclusions were set out at [48 - 62]:-
The Panel allowed the appeal and ordered as follows:-
This decision by the Appeal Panel, on which Mr Oliver placed significant reliance, was not the subject of any further appeal.
In Sleiman (Court of Appeal), the relevant passages in the judgment of Sackville AJA are at [168], [193 - 194], [197 - 198] and [200 - 201]:-
Discussion and conclusions. In our opinion, it is useful to consider first the proposition that disclosure, in the context of section 29(3), may as a matter of law be taken to have occurred solely by virtue of events from which an applicant for review could reasonably be expected to infer that the Commissioner has made a claim for the classification of material held by the Tribunal as section 15(6) material.
In our opinion, the arguments and authorities that Mr Oliver put before us in support of this general proposition are to be preferred. Despite a submission to the contrary by Mr Lynch, we take this to be an important component of the decision in AVSGA (Appeal Panel), particularly in view of what the Panel said at [60 - 62]. 
We have scrutinised carefully the observations relevant to this proposition in Sackville AJA's judgment in AVSGA (Court of Appeal). The second sentence of paragraph [201] would appear to support it. But the last two sentences of paragraph [168] contemplate that events 'merely indicating in general terms' that the Tribunal is in possession of material not disclosed to an applicant 'may not necessarily "disclose the existence" of Criminal Intelligence for the purposes of s 29(3)(a) of the SI Act'. Neither this decision nor any other decision to which we were referred, except for AVSGA (Appeal Panel), addresses directly the proposition relating to section 29(3) that we are now considering.
The question now to be resolved concerns the implications for the AVSGA proceedings of our acceptance of this general proposition. The authority on which this acceptance is principally based, AVSGA (Appeal Panel), was a decision in those proceedings. We treat is as establishing that the factors that it identified at [60] and [61] resulted in a 'disclosure' to the AVSGA applicants of a claim by the Commissioner that some of the material on which he relied fell within section 15(6). These factors were the service of a notice of revocation on AVSGA and the filing of material under s 58 following AVSGA's application for review, in circumstances where both the notice and the filed material were silent in relation to the allegations relied on and made reference to sections 15(6) and 15(7) of the SI Act.
In consequence, any subsequent action by the Tribunal amounting to disclosure of this limited scope would not have been prohibited by section 29(3). To the extent that the Tribunal refused or failed to take such action out of concern not to infringe the prohibition in section 29(3), it erred in law. To this extent, Appeal Grounds 6A(b), 12 (AVSGC) and 12(a), (b) and (d) (AVSGA) have been made out.
The question remains, however, whether a finding is warranted that the Tribunal denied procedural fairness to the AVSGA applicants, furnishing grounds for setting aside the Tribunal's decision in their proceedings. 
On this question, we endorse the position taken by Mr Lynch. Mr Oliver did not point to any specific prejudice suffered by the AVSGA applicants. In determining whether procedural unfairness has occurred, it is important to view the decision-making process 'in its entirety': see e.g. Kyriakou v Long  [2014] NSWCA 308 at  [18]. Having come to realise that the Commissioner must have claimed that section 15(6) material existed, the AVSGA applicants were in a position to make appropriate adjustments to the manner in which they conducted their case. 
They were able to infer, as Mr Oliver's submissions acknowledged, that the disallowance of the questions to Mr Smith was based on a conclusion that the answers would reveal what the Tribunal believed - in our view, correctly - to be section 15(6) material. Although, as we have concluded, the Tribunal should have informed the Appellants that hearings from which they would be excluded were to be held and indeed notified them of the dates of these hearings, it could not be said that they suffered any material prejudice through not having received this information. We have already mentioned the Commissioner's filing of redacted and unredacted reasons in the AVSGA proceedings. Accordingly, we are not persuaded that any unfairness occurred. 
Appeal Ground 11, as we interpret it, raised this broad question. In its formulation, specific reference was made to Confidential Exhibits C6B (to the extent that it was disclosed to the Appellants) and C18 (which was disclosed in full).
We agree with the Appellants that this is a question with which we must deal in this appeal. The Commissioner submitted that because we are bound by section 29(3)(b) of the SI Act, any hearing at which the content of material that the Tribunal had held to fall within section 15(6) would be given consideration should take place (unless he approved otherwise) in the absence of the Appellants, their representatives and the public. The Appellants assented to this proposition. On 25 August 2014, a hearing of this nature took place.
In determining whether the items of documentary material that were tendered by the Commissioner, admitted into evidence by the Tribunal, classified as section 15(6) material and accordingly not disclosed to the Appellants (except, as just mentioned, for parts of Exhibit C6B and for Exhibit 18) were correctly so classified, we have taken into account the rulings regarding the following aspects of section 15(6) and 29(3) set out earlier in this decision: (a) the meaning and scope of 'Criminal Information'; (b) the criteria for determining whether Criminal Information is 'held in relation to' a licence applicant or holder; (c) whether section 29(3) can apply only to material to which the Commissioner actually had regard in making his determination: (d) whether, and if so in what circumstances, material bearing on the question of 'close association' may be section 15(6) material.
In our judgment, two such items, each of which formed part of Exhibit C6B but was not included in the disclosed part, should not have been so classified. Because we have reached this conclusion, section 29(3) of the SI Act does not require us to conceal their content. We will identify them in a similar manner to that employed in order to identify the items within this exhibit for which the Commissioner approved disclosure to the Appellants.
The first of them (in point of time) is a report headed New South Wales Police Service and dated 7 October 2000. The last three digits of its number are 181. It contains a police officer's description of a fight between intoxicated persons seeking to gain entry to a named hotel in Sydney and security officers barring entry. Two of these officers are labelled 'victims'. In its only references to Peter Sleiman, the report identifies him as a witness to the fight. None of the other Appellants is mentioned. The event reported predates by several years the events of primary significance in this case. Even though the participants in the fight may have engaged in criminal activity, we do not see how this information about Peter's involvement as a witness only could be said to be Criminal Information 'held in relation to' him within the meaning of section 15(6).
The second of these items is a report also headed New South Wales Police Service and dated 25 January 2006. The last three digits of its number are 154. It contains an account of a police officer's discussion with Peter regarding his ownership of a named hotel, his engagement of a named firm to provide security services at the hotel and the relationship (which included the sharing of premises) between this firm and 'AVS'. No allegation of criminal activity is made and there is nothing to suggest that the owner of (or anyone else involved with) this firm was engaged in or suspected of criminal activity. While Peter and 'AVS' are referred to, there is no mention of Tony. Again, we do not see how the information contained in this report could be characterised as Criminal Information 'held in relation to' Peter, AVSGA or AVSGC.
For these reasons, both of these items of admitted evidence should have been disclosed to the Appellants. But in our judgment this error on the Tribunal's part is insufficient to justify appellate interference. Our reasons are as follows: (a) this evidentiary material does not cast any light on the questions at issue in these proceedings; (b) no reference was made to it in the Tribunal's reasons; (c) accordingly, the Appellants did not suffer any prejudice on account of its having been admitted into evidence without being disclosed to them.
We turn now to the Appellants' arguments based on the content of the material within Confidential Exhibit C6B that was disclosed to the Appellants, despite being held to be section 15(6) material, following approval of disclosure by the Commissioner. Because these arguments were made within a section of the Appellants' written submissions marked 'Confidential', it is appropriate that the ensuing discussion of them should be the subject of an order under section 75(2) of the ADT Act prohibiting its release to the public.
[Not for publication].
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Appellants' arguments relating to the disclosed part of Exhibit C6B do not establish grounds for appellate interference with the Tribunal's decision.
The final item of evidence to be considered in the present context is Confidential Exhibit C18. As with Exhibit C6B, the Appellants' arguments were made within a section of their written submissions marked 'Confidential'. It is therefore appropriate again that the ensuing discussion of them should be the subject of an order under section 75(2) of the ADT Act prohibiting its release to the public.
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
[Not for publication]. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Appellants' arguments relating to Exhibit C18 do not establish grounds for appellate interference with the Tribunal's decision.
Our decision with regard to Appeal Ground 11 is therefore that while it has been made out to a limited extent, it does not provide a basis for disturbing the Tribunal's decision.
We have reserved this topic for discussion at a relatively late stage of these reasons because the issues arising are more easily understood after specific aspects of section 29(3) have been investigated and explained.
The Court of Appeal decision. In the case that we have called Sleiman (Court of Appeal), at [206 - 232], Sackville AJA discussed and rejected an argument by the applicants in the AVSGC proceedings that section 29(3) of the SI Act was constitutionally invalid. In his judgment, his Honour referred to these appellants collectively as 'AVS'.
At [206], he set out the terms of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the notice under section 78B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) that those appellants had filed:-
At [207 - 209], his Honour summarised the key ingredients of the appellants' argument on this matter as follows:-
At [214], Sackville AJA formulated 'five propositions of significance' deriving from the High Court's judgments in Kirk v Industrial Court (NSW):-
Having rejected (at [218]) a contention by the Attorney General (intervening on this constitutional question) that the question was 'premature', Sackville AJA ruled at [219] that 'The principles in Kirk do not... lead to the conclusion that State legislation which creates practical difficulties for an applicant seeking judicial review for jurisdictional error will necessarily fall foul of Chapter III of the Constitution.' In support of this proposition, he cited dicta from the judgments of Hayne and Heydon JJ in South Australia v Totani  [2010] HCA 39;  242 CLR 1 at  [195] and [269]. At [223], he pointed out (a) that nothing in section 29(3) or in any other provision of the SI Act or the ADT Act denied the power of the Supreme Court to grant relief in respect of jurisdictional error by the Tribunal (including its Appeal Panel) and (b) that the ADT Act in fact both conferred a right of appeal from decisions of the Appeal Panel to the Supreme Court and explicitly preserved the Court's power, in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, to review decisions of the Tribunal.
His Honour's observations in the next two paragraphs ([224] and [225]) provided the basis on which Mr Oliver, in the present appeal, argued that we should not treat the Court of Appeal's decision as binding upon us:-
His Honour then gave (at [226 - 231]) the following reasons for rejecting the appellants' claim of constitutional invalidity:-
The parties' submissions. In the present proceedings, the Appellants raised the following questions of law in their Notices of Appeal:- 
Mr Oliver advanced the following line of argument:- 
Relying on a line of authority stemming from the decision in Kirk, Mr Oliver contended that this outcome was impermissible under the Constitution. The reasons for this were that section 29(3) gave rise to an 'impairment' of the Supreme Court's statutory power and inherent jurisdiction to grant relief for jurisdictional error by the Tribunal and 'enlisted' this Court to affirm decisions of the Tribunal in a manner that was 'incompatible with the institutional integrity that is one of the Supreme Court's defining characteristics'.
Mr Oliver's explanation as to why we should not consider ourselves to be bound on this matter by the decision in Sleiman (Court of Appeal) stemmed from two paragraphs in that decision - [224] and [225] - to which we have already drawn attention. He said that in the present proceedings AVSGC and AVSGA were making three submissions (outlined in those two paragraphs) that according to Sackville AJA the appellants in the Court of Appeal proceedings did not make. 
These three submissions now being made were as follows: (1) in a case in which the Tribunal had taken section 15(6) material into account in rejecting an application for review of a revocation decision and therefore did not publish full reasons, it could not be assumed that the Tribunal would necessarily prepare unpublished reasons which might, upon scrutiny, reveal that it had made a jurisdictional error; (2) in such a case, section 29(3) would prevent the Supreme Court from requiring the Tribunal to produce to the Court the full reasons for its decision; and (3) if the Court sought to impose such a requirement, the Tribunal would be excused from complying with it.
In seeking to substantiate these three submissions, Mr Oliver argued that the only provisions in the ADT Act imposing a duty on the Tribunal to give reasons for its decisions were sections 89(3) and 117. Because the latter provision was applicable only to decisions of an Appeal Panel, it was not relevant in circumstances where a party sought review for jurisdictional error of a first instance decision. Under the former provision, only a party could require written reasons for such a decision to be provided and any application for this to be done had to be made within 28 days of the party's receipt of notice of the decision. In addition, section 127(3) of the ADT Act, stated that members and former members of the Tribunal could not be required to give evidence to a court in relation to any proceedings in the Tribunal. 
The following consequences ensued, according to Mr Oliver:- 
The reference, in Mr Oliver's submissions, to the unconstitutionality of 'enlisting' a Court to affirm the decisions of the Tribunal was based on the High Court's use of this terminology in South Australia v Totani  [2010] HCA 39;  242 CLR 1. It is sufficient here to quote the following extract from a passage in French CJ's judgment (at [82]) that Mr Oliver cited:-
In response to the proposition that a failure by the Tribunal to prepare full reasons for a decision of this nature and to supply such reasons to the Commissioner was highly unlikely, Mr Oliver maintained that the mere possibility that the Tribunal might not prepare or supply reasons was sufficient to render section 29(3) unconstitutional. He relied on dicta of the High Court in Wainohu v State of New South Wales  [2011] HCA 24; 243 CLR 181. Here the High Court, by majority, struck down NSW legislation requiring declarations as to whether an organisation was a 'declared organisation' (on grounds of engaging in criminal activities) to be made by an 'eligible judge' of the Supreme Court, without there being any requirement for reasons to be given. The majority held that on account of the absence of this requirement, the legislation purported to confer on the judges of a State court administrative functions that substantially impaired its essential and defining characteristics as a court. 
The dicta on which Mr Oliver relied were as follows:-
In responding, Mr Lynch argued first that we should not entertain this claim of constitutional invalidity, at least without first granting leave, because it had not been raised before the Tribunal or determined by it in either of the decisions under appeal.
In reply, Mr Oliver pointed out that at the time of the Tribunal hearing, the Tribunal appeared to lack jurisdiction to rule upon any question as to the validity, under the Commonwealth Constitution, of a NSW statutory provision. This was by virtue of the Court of Appeal's decision in Attorney General (NSW) v Radio 2UE Sydney Pty Ltd  [2006] NSWCA 349. But in a more recent decision, Sunol v Collier  [2012] NSWCA 14, the Court adopted a different view. At [20], Basten JA, delivering the judgment of the Court, said:-
Mr Oliver relied also on a dictum of Basten JA in another decision of the Court of Appeal, B & L Linings Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue  [2008] NSWCA 187; 74 NSWLR 48, at [125]. With reference to section 119 of the ADT Act, which provided for a right of appeal on a question of law from an Appeal Panel of the Tribunal to the Supreme Court, his Honour said:-
A second preliminary submission by Mr Lynch was that the Court of Appeal's ruling on constitutionality in Sleiman (Court of Appeal) was res judicata between the parties to these appeals and created an issue estoppel between them.
In reply, Mr Oliver pointed out that two of the present appellants, AVSGA and Tony, were not parties to the appeal proceedings in Sleiman (Court of Appeal) and therefore could not be affected by the doctrine of res judicata. He argued also that because the 'concessions' of the appellants in those proceedings that Sackville AJA outlined at [225] (see above at [269]) were not made in the present proceedings, there was also no issue estoppel against AVSGC.
Mr Lynch referred also to the fact that AVSGC and Peter had applied unsuccessfully for special leave to appeal to the High Court against the Court of Appeal's ruling on the constitutionality of section 29(3) (see AVS Group of Companies Pty Limited & Anor v Commissioner of Police & Anor  [2011] HCATrans 239). Mr Oliver's response was that a refusal of special leave by the High Court did not constitute a determination that the point sought to be agitated was without merit.
A further submission of Mr Lynch was that because an applicant for judicial review of a decision of the Tribunal will inevitably seek written reasons under section 89(3) of the ADT Act, such reasons will, from a practical point of view, be prepared in each case and made available to the applicant. 
Mr Oliver pointed out, however, in his submissions in reply that by virtue of the express reference to reasons in section 29(3)(a), any such reasons could not include section 15(6) material in the absence of approval by the Commissioner.
Mr Lynch relied also on the existence of two subordinate provisions relating to judicial review proceedings in the Supreme Court of a decision by a 'public authority' or 'public body': namely, paragraph 23 of Practice Notice SC CL 3 and rule 59.9 of the Uniform Civil Procedure Rules ('the UCPR'). These respectively provided for the Court to order, or a notice to be served, on the authority or body requiring it to furnish to the plaintiff a statement of its reasons for the decision.
In this context, Mr Lynch cited a Supreme Court case, Whalley v Commissioner of Police  [2003] NSWSC 273. The Court there held that because a then existing practice note containing a provision comparable to paragraph 23 of SC CL 3 was based on sections of the Supreme Court Act 1970
Mr Oliver's arguments in reply were as follows: (a) since once more the party receiving the reasons under paragraph 23 or rule 59.9 would be the applicant for review, no section 15(6) material could be included in them; (b) it could not be assumed that the Tribunal was a 'public authority' or 'public body' within the meaning of these provisions; and (c) the decision in Whalley did not go so far, understandably, as to rule that a practice note could override a specific statutory prohibition such as section 29(3) imposed.
Discussion and conclusions. In accordance with the principles stated by Basten JA in Sunol v Collier [2012] NSWCA 14, the ADT did not, and the Civil and Administrative Tribunal does not, have jurisdiction to determine the validity of section 29(3) of the SI Act under the Commonwealth Constitution. But our decision in these appeal proceedings should, as we understand his Honour's exposition, take account of our opinion on this question. The correctness of this decision may (to quote from this exposition) 'depend upon the conclusion of the Supreme Court (and if challenged, the High Court) as to the correct answer to the constitutional question'.
We agree with Mr Oliver, for the reasons advanced by him, that (a) we should deal with this question (without any necessity of first granting leave) even though it was not raised before the Tribunal and (b) the principles of res judicata and issue estoppel do not preclude its being argued before us by AVSGA and by Tony. We do not need to decide whether AVSGC and Peter are barred by these principles.
We have concluded, however, that insufficient grounds have been advanced to warrant acting on an opinion contrary to that expressed by the Court of Appeal.
Our principal reason for so concluding is that, as we interpret Sackville AJA's judgment, he did not treat the appellants' 'concessions' described by him at [224] and [225] as essential to his ruling. At [229 - 230], his Honour rejected their contention (summarised at [227]) that by virtue of r 6.12A (which has since been repealed, with its contents absorbed into r 59) of the UCPR, the Supreme Court could obtain only an incomplete version of the Tribunal's reasons in any case in which it had taken account of section 15(6) material and the Commissioner had not approved disclosure of this material. The gist of his Honour's response to this contention was that r 6.12A did not provide the only means whereby the Court might obtain access to the reasons for decision. This was because, under both the Civil Procedure Act 2005
On account of these considerations, Sackville AJA made the following emphatic pronouncement at [230]:-
A further important aspect of Sackville AJA's reasoning on this topic is that in the last sentence of paragraph [226] he envisaged receipt by the Supreme Court of 'full reasons... even if they are confidential'. 
One immediate implication of these statements by his Honour is that r 59.9, to which Mr Lynch adverted, cannot be regarded as setting out the full scope of the Court's powers to require that reasons be prepared and furnished by a tribunal or other body whose decision is the subject of review. That rule, as Mr Oliver pointed out, envisages provision of reasons to the applicant for review, not to the Court. It may also be - though we are doubtful about this - that he was correct in submitting that the Tribunal is not a 'public authority' within the scope of the Rule. But if in the circumstances the order that will best give effect to the 'just' exercise by the Court of its jurisdiction to review is an order or direction to the Tribunal both to prepare reasons (if it has not already done so) and provide them to the Court (though not the applicant), such an order is clearly within its broad powers. The legitimacy of such an order is all the more manifest because by virtue of r 59.4 of the UCPR the Tribunal will be a party to the review proceedings. 
Furthermore, the Court may, according to Sackville AJA, receive those reasons under conditions of confidentiality. This observation by him implies clearly that in his opinion the provision of full reasons to the Court by the Tribunal would not offend section 29(3), even if the Commissioner's approval to the disclosure of any section 15(6) material within them was not forthcoming.
These features of Sackville AJA's reasoning are sufficient, in our opinion, to justify our conclusion that there are no proper grounds for treating his decision on this matter as distinguishable in the present proceedings, even though certain 'concessions' made by the appellants in the Court of Appeal were not made in these proceedings.
In the remainder of this discussion, we will refer to three cases that were not cited by the parties in the present context or at all, but which operate, in our opinion, to confirm this conclusion.
The first of these, QR v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police (GD) [2005] NSWADTAP 59, is a decision by an Appeal Panel of the ADT. Mr Oliver relied on this decision, but not in the course of making submissions on constitutionality. It involved an application for review of a decision by the Commissioner refusing to grant a licence under the SI Act to the applicant, 'QR'. The Commissioner, relying on sections 15(1)(a) and 15(3), based his refusal on his opinion that the appellant was not a fit and proper person to hold a licence and that a grant of the licence would be contrary to the public interest. At the time, this Act contained section 15(6) and (7), but not section 29(3). 
The Tribunal, relying on section 75(2) of the ADT Act, conducted two hearings in QR's absence. QR was not aware that the second of these hearings took place until he read the Tribunal's decision. At those two hearings, the Tribunal received evidence from the Commissioner which it held to be section 15(6) material and ruled that this evidence should not be disclosed.
The Tribunal explained the basis of this ruling as follows (QR v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police [2005] NSWADT 122 at  [10]):-
In its decision affirming the Commissioner's refusal to grant a licence to QR, the Tribunal outlined certain grounds of refusal that had been ventilated in the open hearing and referred to the existence of the other grounds that it had dealt with in the closed hearings. 
One of the grounds of QR's appeal was the Tribunal's omission to give full reasons. In its decision, the Appeal Panel described this omission as follows (at [11]):-
The Appeal Panel's discussion of this ground of appeal included the following passages (at [16], [23 - 24], [29 - 30]):-
We regard these aspects of the Appeal Panel's decision as contradicting Mr Oliver's proposition that the only duty imposed on the Tribunal to provide reasons for a decision at first instance under the SI Act in which it has taken account of section 15(6) material is the duty expressly imposed by section 89(3) of the ADT Act when a party has requested reasons within the specified period of 28 days. The Appeal Panel in QR treated as an error of law the Tribunal's failure to prepare confidential reasons, in addition to those that it made available to both the parties and the public, and to place them in a file to which the Commissioner would have access. It described the duty to prepare confidential reasons as a 'heightened' duty.
Support for this decision is provided, at a more general level, by the Court of Appeal case of Campbelltown City Council v Vegan  [2006] NSWCA 284;  67 NSWLR 372. We refer particularly to a lengthy discussion by Basten JA, at [102 - 120], of the circumstances in which an administrative tribunal, or other administrative body, might be subject to an implied duty to give reasons, despite the existence of a common law principle (confirmed by the High Court in Public Service Board v Osmond  (1986) 159 CLR 656) that these bodies were under no such duty. 
The facts of the case were outlined in the headnote as follows:-
An issue arising in the appeal was whether the Appeal Panel was under a duty to give reasons for its decision. The Workplace Injury Act imposed an express duty of this nature on the medical specialist who provided the initial assessment, but not on the Appeal Panel. In allowing the appeal, the Court of Appeal held that the Panel was under an implied duty to give reasons and that its failure to do so constituted an error on the face of the record, providing grounds for its decision to be set aside on judicial review.
The following extracts from the judgment of Basten JA (with whom McColl JA agreed) are relevant to the present context:-
At [20 - 31], Handley JA reached the same conclusion on this question, referring amongst other things to the fact that the Appeal Panel had a 'power and duty' to correct error and that the exercise, by the court or the Workers Compensation Commission, of a statutory power to order a further medical assessment would be 'hindered' if the Appeal Panel gave no reasons.
We attach particular significance to Basten JA's observations (at [108] and [109]) regarding the characterisation of the ADT, in Trust Company of Australia Ltd v Skiwing Pty Ltd [2006] NSWCA 185, as exercising, in some contexts at least, a power 'in the nature of a judicial function'. We note also that this Honour regarded it as relevant that the functions performed by the Appeal Panel under the Workplace Injury Act were previously undertaken by the Compensation Court, whose judges were obliged to give reasons. In AVSGC (Court of Appeal) at [144], Campbell JA pointed out that in the period before the ADT acquired jurisdiction to review decisions by the Commissioner under the SI Act, the mode of challenge of those decisions was an appeal to a Magistrates Court. 
The two authorities that we have just examined lend support to our opinion that an essential component of Mr Oliver's argument on this topic - namely, that the Tribunal's only duty to prepare and furnish reasons for a decision at first instance under the SI Act is the duty stated in section 89(3) of the ADT Act - is incorrect. The existence of an additional implied duty, in the particular circumstances of review proceedings under the SI Act during which section 15(6) material has been admitted in a closed hearing, appears clear to us.
The third and final authority that we shall consider bears on a different element of Mr Oliver's argument. This is the proposition that any reasons furnished by the Tribunal to the Supreme Court for the purposes of judicial review of a decision of the Tribunal under the SI Act would be incomplete, in the absence of approval by the Commissioner, to the extent that any aspect of them fell within the prohibition in section 29(3). 
As we said above, we interpret Sackville AJA's judgment as rejecting this proposition. But in case there is some doubt as to this, we are of the opinion that by virtue of the Supreme Court's wide powers under the CP Act and the UCPR to make orders and give directions to achieve a just outcome when reviewing Tribunal decisions, it could order the Commissioner to approve disclosure to it - not to the review applicant or to any other person - of those parts of the Tribunal's reasons that fell within the scope of the prohibition in section 29(3).
This opinion is based on a Supreme Court case, Wray v Wray  [2007] NSWSC 164. The judgment of Gzell J in this case commenced as follows:-
His Honour then quoted section 207 of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999
Having observed (at [5]) that an approach by a third party to Centrelink was unlikely to elicit a response, his Honour continued:-
At [13 - 15], Gzell J gave the following reasons for concluding that he had power to order that the defendant sign the authority that the plaintiff sought:-
As stated in this extract, his Honour based his decision on section 56(3) of the CP Act. Section 56 was one of the provisions expressly relied on by Sackville AJA in Sleiman (Court of Appeal). If the broad powers conferred on the Supreme Court by this section were sufficient to support the order made by Gzell J to the defendant to authorise Centrelink to release information to the plaintiff, they would surely be sufficient to support an order, if this were necessary, requiring the Commissioner to approve release by the Tribunal to the Supreme Court of reasons that would otherwise be prohibited from disclosure by section 29(3) of the SI Act. It may be relevant, though not (we think) necessary, to add that the Commissioner is bound to comply with the standards laid down for model litigants.
For all of these reasons, Appeal Grounds 3 has not been made out and Grounds 3A and 4 do not arise. 
We have already reproduced (at [22]) the text of the definition of 'close associate' in section 5 of the SI Act at the relevant time. 
The Tribunal's interpretation. The Tribunal ruled that Peter did not hold a 'relevant financial interest', and was not 'entitled to exercise any relevant power', in the business of AVSGA and therefore did not fall within the scope of section 5(1)(a). 
It decided, however, that Peter held a 'relevant position' in the business of this company, and was therefore a 'close associate' of it under section 5(1)(b).
The passages in the Tribunal's decision containing discussion of the meaning of 'close associate' and of the specific concept of 'relevant position' were at paragraphs [97] to [110] and [216]:-
The Appellants' submissions. In Appeal Ground 1, the Appellants claimed that the Tribunal's finding that Peter was a person who 'holds' a 'relevant position' in AVSGA and was therefore a 'close associate' of this company was not open to it on the facts that it had found.
In seeking to make good this claim, Mr Oliver argued that the Tribunal's construction of the phrase 'holds... any relevant position... in the business of' in section 5(1)(b) of the SI Act was erroneous. He made the following four criticisms of the Tribunal's approach.
First, the Tribunal took no or no sufficient account of the term 'designated' in the definition of 'relevant position' in section 5(2). Mr Oliver cited the Macquarie Dictionary's definition of the verb 'designate', which is as follows:-
He also quoted the following definition from the Shorter Oxford Dictionary (3rd edition):-
Mr Oliver submitted that in determining whether particular facts fell within the definition of 'relevant position' in section 5(2) of the SI Act, the actual 'designation' of a position was not conclusive, but the existence or occurrence of some sort of 'designation' was necessary. It followed, he said, that if a person merely assumed or usurped managerial authority within a business, there was no 'designation' of a position within the business and no assumption or usurpation of a position that had been 'designated'.
Secondly, the Tribunal took insufficient account of the requirement in the definition that the putative close associate 'holds or will hold' the 'relevant position'. Mr Oliver cited in this context the following passages in the judgment of McInerney J in a case to which the Tribunal referred, Cockerell v Fry (1967) 15 LGRA 164, at 178:-
These dicta showed, according to Mr Oliver, that the word 'hold', in relation to a 'position', connotes not merely the exercise de facto of the functions and powers of that position, but an entitlement to exercise those powers and functions by virtue of having been appointed to it.
Thirdly, the Tribunal, having apparently accepted this interpretation of the phrase 'holds... any relevant position' in its 'legally relevant sense', erred in holding that it was not applicable to Peter's relationship to AVSGA, on the ground that 'circumstances exist in this matter which take it out of the ordinary'. In taking this view, it erred because, as Mr Oliver expressed it, 'the proper construction of a statutory provision cannot vary according to the circumstances of the particular case to which the provision is applied'. It followed, he said, that that 'the statutory phrase "holds... any relevant position" must have a single objective meaning that does not vary from case to case'. The Tribunal should not have ruled that this phrase could be construed otherwise than in accordance with its 'legally relevant sense'.
Fourthly, the Tribunal should have held that section 5(1)(b), when construed in its 'legally relevant sense', calls for the application of a 'categorical test of objective current or future entitlement', not an 'impressionistic assessment of the extent and degree of past influence'. 
According to Mr Oliver, support for this view is to be found in Avilion Group Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police (No 2) (GD)  [2010] NSWADTAP 56. In this case, an Appeal Panel of the ADT held that section 5(1)(a) of the SI Act imposed a 'categorical test' of this nature. A further consideration of importance was, in his submission, that the holders of licences are subject to 'categorical obligations to declare "close associates" from time to time', breach of which can lead to revocation of their licence and/or criminal penalties under section 26(1(b) of the SI Act and cl 34 of the SI Regulation. 
It was by virtue of these errors, Mr Oliver maintained, that the Tribunal incorrectly held Peter to be a 'close associate' of AVSGA even though (i) he had never been formally appointed to any position in the business of this company and (ii) the de facto position in this business which the Tribunal found to be 'held' by him did not correspond to any position that was 'designated' within the business at any material time.
The Commissioner's submissions. In opposing the contention that some sort of 'designation' of the position claimed to be 'held' by a putative close associate was an essential element of the definition of 'close associate' in sections 5(1)(b) and 5(2), Mr Lynch argued that any such requirement would be 'surprising'. 
The reasons for this, he said, were as follows: (a) this definition was clearly concerned with the substance, not the form, of the relationship between the putative 'close associate' and the relevant business; (b) any such 'formal requirement' would not need, according to the terms of the definition, to be 'a true reflection of the substance of the position' with which it was concerned; and (c) the use of the phrase 'however designated' indicated that 'designation' was immaterial to the operation of the definition. 
In disputing Mr Oliver's submissions on the construction of the word 'hold' in section 5(1)(b), Mr Lynch pointed out that its primary meaning (for instance, as given in the Macquarie Dictionary) was simply 'have'. Nothing in section 5 itself, he said, or in its statutory context gave any grounds for attributing a special meaning to this word. He added that the case cited by Mr Oliver, Cockerell v Fry (1967) 15 LGRA 164, was not relevant to this question because it dealt with the circumstances in which a person could be found to 'hold' a statutory office, such as an office established under local authority legislation. 
In the alternative, Mr Lynch argued that if the word 'hold' was held to require some form of 'appointment' to a position within a licence-holder's business, the Tribunal's finding (at [223]) that Peter 'exercised executive authority' in AVSGA's business 'with Tony's approval - either tacit or implicit' was sufficient to satisfy this requirement.
Like Mr Oliver, Mr Lynch placed reliance on Avilion Group Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police (No 2) (GD)  [2010] NSWADTAP 56. He pointed out that in this decision (at [83]) the Appeal Panel construed section 5(1)(a) (in so far as it based the definition of 'close associate' on an entitlement to exercise a 'relevant power') as referring to a de jure entitlement or legal right, whether or not that any exercise of that entitlement or right had actually occurred or would occur in the future. 
From this starting-point, he argued that both section 5(1)(a) and section 5(1)(b) were concerned with 'directorial, managerial and executive functions'. But they differed, he said, in so far as the former provision stipulated that an 'entitlement' to exercise such functions must exist, whereas in the latter this requirement was conspicuously absent. In contrast to 5(1)(a), section 5(1)(b) was concerned to address the 'de facto' position. If it was not interpreted with this in mind, a 'surprising' result would ensue: namely, that the concept of 'close associate' would include people who were entitled to exert significant influence over the conduct of a licensee, but did not in fact do this, but would leave out people who in fact exercised such influence while possessing no legal entitlement to do so. On the other hand, the correct interpretation of section 5(1)(b) would ensure that these two provisions complemented each other, thereby advancing the 'statutory purpose and object' underlying both of them.
Finally, Mr Lynch argued that the construction of section 5(1)(b) advanced by Mr Oliver would permit easy avoidance of the provisions of the SI Act through ensuring that a person who de facto exercised managerial control or influence over the operations of a licensee was never formally 'appointed to' any 'designated' position. He referred in this context to the Appeal Panel's rejection in Avilion of a submission that because section 6(3) of the Act, cl 6 of the SI Regulation and Item 20 of Schedule 1 of this Regulation, when read in combination, conferred an exemption 'from the operation of this Act' on any person who was employed in a security business but did not perform any 'security activities', such a person could not be a 'close associate' of the business. 
In rejecting this argument, the Appeal Panel said, at [71 - 72]:-
Discussion and conclusions. This question of interpretation is, in our opinion, a difficult one. 
The linguistic features of section 5(1)(b) and the definition of 'relevant position' in section 5(2) lend significant support to Mr Oliver's argument. They do indeed suggest that the 'position' occupied by a putative close associate must have some sort of 'designation'. 
The fact, however, that two of the alternative definitions of 'designate' that Mr Oliver quoted used the word 'appoint' cannot be taken to mean that some sort of 'appointment' must take place. This is because each of these definitions provided a meaning for 'designate' in the context of designating a person. By contrast, the word 'designated' in section 5(2) refers to the designation of 'positions'. The quoted dictionary definitions of this word when so used employ terms such as 'specify' and 'name', not 'appoint'.
We agree with Mr Lynch that, for the reason that he gave, the decision in Cockerell v Fry (1967) 15 LGRA 164 does not provide useful guidance on the meaning of the word 'hold' in section 5(1)(b). But in association with 'position' this word does, we believe, suggest that some form of possession or occupation is contemplated.
The definition of 'position' in the Macquarie Dictionary, which was drawn to our attention, includes a number of words, such as 'post', that denote a position of a formal nature within an organisation. It also includes some words with a broader connotation, such as 'situation'. A common feature of most of the synonyms listed in the definition is that they suggest some degree of continuous occupation of a 'place', whether physical or metaphorical.
As the Tribunal pointed out, the term 'director' is commonly associated with a formal role within a company: namely, membership of the board of directors. But no such formal role is associated with the term 'manager', or indeed with the phrase 'other executive positions'. In determining whether a person engaged in the activities of a company or other organisation can properly be called a 'manager', or as holding any 'executive position', one must often look to the range of functions that he or she performs with some degree of continuity, not to the question whether an act signifying formal recognition of his or her status as 'manager' or as the holder of an 'executive position' has occurred.
On the matter of the legislative policy underlying the Act's adoption of the concept of 'close associate', we regard Mr Lynch's submissions as persuasive. To invoke the terminology of section 33 of the Interpretation Act 1987
By contrast, the interpretation for which Mr Oliver argued leaves significant scope for evasion of the 'purpose or object underlying the Act'. It also gives rise to anomalies. According to this interpretation, if a person who de facto exercises managerial control over the business of the holder of a master licence is regularly referred to as 'the manager' or even (it would seem) 'the boss', this 'designation' brings him or her within the definition in section 5(1)(b) and section 5(2). But if such 'designations' are studiously avoided in all relevant contexts (such as the firm's internal documents and its communications, documentary and oral, with outsiders), the person will not be a 'close associate'.
On the particular matters of construction on which the parties' submissions were in conflict - i.e. in essence, the significance of the terms 'hold', 'position' and 'designated' in section 5 - we have not been able to obtain direct guidance from any past cases. We agree with Mr Lynch that the Appeal Panel's decision in Avilion Group Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police (No 2) (GD)  [2010] NSWADTAP 56 is at least compatible with his position and may be read as providing some support for it. The same may be said of the relevant passage (paragraphs [77] to [80]) in the decision under appeal in that case (Avilion Group Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police  [2010] NSWADT 129). 
It is appropriate that we mention here a decision in the Occupational Division of NCAT that was delivered on 2 May 2014, after the hearing of these appeals had concluded. In Naylor v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2014] NSWCATOD 43, the Tribunal affirmed a decision of the Commissioner, made by a notice dated 11 March 2013, to revoke a master licence under the SI Act held by a company called Essential Security Pty Ltd. The Applicant, Jasmin Naylor, was the nominated holder and licensee of this master licence. The decision to revoke the company's licence was made on three grounds: (a) that Muhammad Farooq, who had a disqualifying conviction, was a close associate of the company and of Ms Naylor; (b) that a condition of the master licence had been breached by the company's failure to disclose that Mr Farooq was a close associate; and (c) that it was in the public interest that the master licence be revoked.
The Tribunal affirmed the Commissioner's decision on the second and third grounds. It found that at the date of the revocation Mr Farooq was a close associate of the company by virtue of being a director, an 'equal shareholder' (along with Ms Naylor) and the company's manager. It also found, however, that on 19 April 2013 he both ceased to be a director and transferred his shareholding to Ms Naylor. On account of these events, the Tribunal concluded that by the time of its decision he was no longer a close associate and that for this reason the first ground of the revocation was not established. 
For present purposes, the relevant passages in its discussion of these matters are at [63 - 69]:-
In our respectful opinion, the Tribunal erred in this part of its reasoning. Its determination that Mr Farooq was not a close associate of the company after 19 April 2013 depended on its having found that after this date he did not hold a 'relevant position' in 'the company'. But the Tribunal also found that after this date Mr Farooq continued to be the manager of the 'business undertaking of' the company. It appears to us that, according to the express terms of section 5, he therefore continued to be a close associate. The Tribunal seems to have overlooked the fact that, according to section 5(1)(b), a person is a close associate of the holder of a licence if he or she holds any 'relevant position' in 'the business of the licence... holder' (our emphasis). It is not necessary that the 'relevant position' is a position in the corporate body which owns this business. Under section 2, 'relevant position' includes 'the position of... manager'. 
Contrary to a submission by Mr Oliver, we do not think that the Tribunal in the present proceedings, when stating at [106] that 'circumstances exist in this matter that take it out of the ordinary', meant that in these proceedings it believed that the interpretation of section 5 should differ from what would normally be appropriate. As the Tribunal explained in the sentence following and in the ensuing paragraphs, the unusual nature of these circumstances permitted departure from the 'usual situation referred to in Cockerell v Fry'. Instead of investigating whether a formal appointment (such as this case envisaged) to a position such as that of director had occurred, the question to be answered was whether Peter's 'actual role' in AVSGA was that of a manager or the holder of some other executive position. According to the interpretation of section 5 to be applied in both of these situations, 'an official title' was not, as the Tribunal said at [108], 'conclusive of the issue'.
For the foregoing reasons, our conclusion is that the Appellants have not shown any error in the Tribunal's interpretation of section 5(1)(b) of the SI Act or of the definition of 'relevant position' in section 5(2).
In separate grounds of appeal, which we will now discuss, it was claimed that the Tribunal erred in admitting, on this question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA, affidavit evidence that it should have disallowed. The validity or otherwise of these grounds does not bear on the specific questions raised in Appeal Ground 1. 
It follows that Appeal Ground 1 has not been made out.
In Appeal Grounds 21 (AVSGC) and 22 (AVSGA), the Appellants claimed that the Tribunal erred in having regard, and/or giving weight, to certain passages, to which the Appellants had objected during the Tribunal hearing, within the affidavits of three of the Commissioner's witnesses. 
These witnesses were Cameron Smith, the Registrar of the Security Industry Registry; Constable Randal Wood, of the State Technical Investigation Branch of the NSW Police; and Ralph Guderjan, the Group Operations Manager of J & J O'Brien Hoteliers. Their affidavits were respectively dated 25 August 2009, 16 December 2009 and 22 August 2010 and admitted as Exhibits R2, R5 and R7.
We will discuss each of these affidavits separately.
Mr Smith's affidavit. The passages in this affidavit to which the Appellants objected unsuccessfully during the Tribunal hearing were the underlined passages in the following extracts from paragraphs 7, 8, 12 - 16 and 18 - 20:-
The objections to the underlined statements quoted from paragraphs 7, 8, 12 - 16 and 18 of the affidavit were said at the Tribunal hearing to be objections as to 'form'. An accompanying explanation of this argument, apparently applying to all these objections, was that each statement was neither direct nor indirect evidence of the terms of a conversation, but instead amounted to a 'mere conclusion or an inadmissible opinion as to the effect of those terms'. On these grounds, it was argued to the Tribunal that each statement should be 'excluded on the basis that it is inadmissible and/or unfairly prejudicial to' the Appellants.
With regard to the underlined statement quoted from paragraphs 19 and 21, the basis of the objections at the Tribunal hearing was that evidence as to the addresses and directorships of AVSGC and AVSGA should have been given by adducing extracts from the ASIC register, that the statement as to the proximity of these addresses was 'hearsay' and that evidence as to the content of 'every page' of the AVS Group's website could not properly be given in the manner that Mr Smith had adopted. 
In dismissing these objections, the Tribunal stated as follows (Transcript, 31 March 2011, p 13, lines 38-43):-
In the ensuing cross-examination of Mr Smith, counsel for the Appellants did not, however, ask him to identify the specific factual matters on which the statements quoted from paragraphs 7, 8, 12 - 16 and 18 were based. In oral submissions at the appeal hearing, Mr Oliver said that counsel 'took the view at this stage that this was an appeal point and that we were not going to do as the Tribunal suggested' (Transcript, 11 March 2014, p 32, lines 34-35).
Mr Oliver's argument to us, in common with the argument put on the applicants' behalf at the Tribunal hearing, took into account the fact that under section 73(2) of the ADT Act, the Tribunal was 'not bound by the rules of evidence' and could 'inquire into and inform itself on any matter in such manner as' it thought fit. He maintained however that the Tribunal, being bound to abide by the rules of natural justice (see again section 73(2)) was obliged, in the exercise of 'its evidentiary discretion', to disallow any evidence that, by virtue of being no more than a conclusion or an opinion, could not be regarded as relevant to the matters to be found by it. Mr Oliver referred also to the provision in section 63(1) of the ADT Act that the Tribunal, in determining an application for review of a reviewable decision, is to have regard, inter alia, to any 'relevant factual material'.
In support of this argument, Mr Oliver relied on the judgment of McInerney J, in the Supreme Court of Victoria, in Wajnberg v Raynor & Melbourne Board of Works [1971] VicRp 82;  [1971] VR 665. This case concerned a decision of an Appeals Tribunal established under the Town and Country Planning Act 1961
Mr Oliver also cited the judgment of McColl JA, with whom Giles and Tobias JJA agreed, in South Western Sydney Area Health Service v Edmonds  [2007] NSWCA 16. This related to a decision given by an Arbitrator of the Workers Compensation Commission, in which reliance was placed on the expert evidence of a medical practitioner, Dr Rivett, who had examined the applicant. It is sufficient in the present context to quote paragraphs [127] to [129] and [132] of her Honour's judgment:-
With specific reference to the decision of counsel for the applicants at the Tribunal hearing not to cross-examine Mr Smith on the alleged basis for his statements claimed to amount only to 'conclusions' or 'opinions', Mr Oliver pointed out first that, as the Tribunal's decision had acknowledged (at [24]), the Commissioner bore the onus of proof. It followed, he said, that if the applicants chose not to put questions relating to the factual basis of these statements during their cross-examination of a potentially hostile witness, it was not open to the Tribunal to draw inferences adverse to them. He maintained that the Tribunal's approach to the matter was inconsistent with two important rules formulated in the case-law as follows:-
In response, Mr Lynch argued that because section 73(2) of the ADT Act excluded the Tribunal from the operation of the 'rules of evidence', evidence tendered to the Tribunal could not properly be characterised as 'inadmissible'. Instead, the sole criterion that the Tribunal should apply when determining whether to take account of any such evidence was whether it was relevant. 
With specific reference to the contested passages in paragraphs 7 and 8 of Mr Smith's affidavit, Mr Lynch made the following oral submissions: (i) the first of them, relating to the topics discussed at a meeting on 29 January 2008 was not ipse dixit or a matter of pure opinion, but was a shorthand summary of these topics; (ii) the second ('Scott Taylor frequently deferred to Peter Sleiman when discussing AVS's operations and implications of the legislative changes for AVS...') had significant factual content; and (iii) the third, to the effect that Peter Sleiman appeared to be the leader of AVS's operations, 'made perfect sense' in the light of what preceded it.
Mr Lynch also made the following submissions: (a) it was incorrect to claim that the Tribunal's decision to admit statements by Mr Smith summarising his conclusions as to Peter's role in AVSGA and AVSGC and to suggest that the Appellants could cross-examine Mr Smith about these statements caused the onus of proof to shift to the Appellants, particularly since appropriate witnesses called by the Appellants, including Peter and Tony Sleiman, could and did give evidence seeking to undermine these conclusions; (b) even if individual statements of this nature should not have been given any weight at all by the Tribunal, the Appellants could not claim that the Tribunal's findings on the issue of close association were erroneous in law unless they could show that they were not supported by any logically probative evidence; and (c) the Tribunal had in fact based its findings on a significant quantity of evidence, tendered at open hearings, in addition to the testimony of Mr Smith.
In our opinion, the Appellants' challenge to the Tribunal's decision to admit the underlined statements in paragraphs 7, 8, 12 - 16 and 18 must fail, broadly for the reasons advanced by Mr Lynch. We add the following observations.
We do not see why, in a tribunal where the rules of evidence do not apply, testimony regarding events occurring at a meeting should be discounted as wholly irrelevant simply because it took the form of a shorthand summary. 
As to the statements by Mr Smith that were criticised as being merely conclusions drawn by him, it is important that other parts of his affidavit (to which Mr Oliver did not refer) contained statements of primary fact that could well be regarded as lending support to these conclusions. In paragraph 6, for example, he testified that he believed that at the commencement of the meeting on 29 January 2008, Mr Taylor introduced Peter Sleiman as 'our director'. In paragraphs 8, 12 and 16, he stated (as indicated above) that there was 'no mention of Tony Sleiman' at any of the three meetings described by him. In paragraph 15, he quoted the statement by Peter Sleiman from which we have reproduced an extract. It is not the case, therefore, that the statements claimed to be 'conclusions' were 'mere conclusions'. In paragraph 18, he supplied the reason why he was 'surprised' at Peter's knowledge about AVS's operations when the issue of employment of guards was raised: namely that the licence held by Peter was a 'nil-employees' Master Security Licence. Accordingly, each of these contested passages explaining a conclusion drawn by Mr Smith was supported by specific factual statements, on which he was open to cross-examination.
We do not accept Mr Oliver's claim that a 'reversal of onus' occurred. Even if, contrary to what we have just said, these 'conclusions' in Mr Smith's affidavit had been mere conclusions, nothing prevented the applicants from arguing to the Tribunal that this was the case and that they should therefore be given no weight at all. The applicants could make this argument without having to cross-examine Mr Smith as to the specific matters on which he based these conclusions. If in the alternative they had chosen to address these matters in their cross-examination of him, the Tribunal would have been obliged to take account of his answers, to grant leave to the applicants (if so requested) to put on evidence by way of rebuttal and to take account of any such further evidence. But the question of close association would still be one on which the Commissioner bore the onus of proof. 
With regard to the underlined statements quoted from paragraphs 19 and 21, the applicants' objections taken at trial were inappropriate, in our opinion, in a tribunal which is not bound by the rules of evidence and may inform itself in such manner as it thinks fit. The disallowance of these objections was not an error of law on the Tribunal's part.
Constable Wood's affidavit. Constable Wood stated that between April 2007 and June 2009, he worked at The Rocks Local Area Command in the licensing area. At the Tribunal hearing, the applicants objected to the following underlined passages in paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 of his affidavit:-
The parties' submissions to us on the question whether the applicants' objections to these underlined passages should have been upheld by the Tribunal were effectively the same as had been directed to the contested passages in paragraphs 7, 8, 12 - 16 and 18 of Mr Smith's affidavit.
For reasons similar to those that we have just outlined, we reject Mr Oliver's submissions relating to the admission of these passages in Constable Wood's affidavit. Specifically, we regard the contested statements in paragraphs 3 and 4 regarding Peter Sleiman as allegations of material fact, not 'mere conclusions', and the statement in paragraph 6 as a conclusion for which the basis was laid in the preceding paragraphs of the affidavit.
Mr Guderjan's affidavit. In his capacity as the Group Operations Manager of J & J O'Brien Hoteliers, Mr Guderjan organised, or at least participated in the organisation of, security services for a hotel called Jackson's on George.
At the Tribunal hearing, the applicants objected to the passages underlined in the following extracts from paragraphs 5 and 6 of his affidavit:-
Once again, the parties' submissions to us were along the same lines as had been advanced with respect to Mr Smith's affidavit.
We would agree that, as was argued to the Tribunal, the underlined phrase in para 5 constituted hearsay and should therefore have been identified as evidence carrying little or no weight. But its content was of no significance in the proceedings.
On the other hand, the underlined phrases in the second sentence of paragraph 6 do not constitute a 'mere conclusion' or statement of opinion . They amounted instead to a further elaboration of the following evidence given by him in paragraphs 2 and 7:-
For the foregoing reasons, Appeal Grounds 21 (AVSGC) and 22 (AVSGA) are not made out.
This question was posed in Appeal Ground 2(b). Grounds 2(a) and 2(c) contained alternative formulations. 
Relevant passages in the Tribunal's reasons. The Tribunal discussed at length the evidence put before it in public hearings on Peter's relationship with AVSGA. In so far as this discussion bore on the question whether Peter held a 'relevant position' in AVSGA's business, it occupied paragraphs [125] to [210] and [214] to [229]. In the intervening paragraphs, [211] to [213], the Tribunal briefly discussed and rejected the Commissioner's claim that Peter held a 'relevant financial interest' or was 'entitled to exercise any relevant power' in AVSGA's business and was for this reason a 'close associate'.
The Tribunal's discussion included summaries of the evidence given by a number of the Commissioner's witnesses (including the three whose affidavits we have just discussed - Mr Smith, Constable Wood and Mr Guderjan), summaries of evidence given by Peter and Tony Sleiman (this included evidence of what the Tribunal called 'the intensity of the relationships' between members of the Sleiman family) and assessments of the credibility of these two witnesses.
At [217 - 218], the Tribunal recorded the following findings:-
The Tribunal then indicated that according to both Peter and Tony, Peter ceased to perform an executive role in AVSGA's business 'after that date' and that it was therefore necessary to determine, on the basis of the Commissioner's evidence, whether he continued to be a close associate.
The Tribunal's finding that he did so continue was based on the following observations (at [221 - 231]):-
It should be added that at [70] the Tribunal had stated that it did not propose to indicate whether or not it had referred to section 15(6) material in the assessment of whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA.
The parties' submissions. Mr Oliver's argument on this matter was, in essence, that the Tribunal should have ruled that the passages to which the Appellants had objected in the affidavits of Mr Smith, Constable Wood and Mr Guderjan were inadmissible for the reasons explained above and that the remaining evidence admitted at the public hearings was not capable of sustaining a rational inference that Peter held a 'relevant position' in the business of AVSGA at any time after 14 August 2009. He identified this date as significant because neither of the witnesses whose testimony was expressly given 'significant weight' by the Tribunal - Mr Martin and Mr Guderjan - maintained explicitly that they had had dealings with Peter purportedly representing AVSGA at any time after this date. It followed, Mr Oliver submitted, that there was clearly no evidentiary basis for the Tribunal's inferences (at [228 - 229] that Peter held a relevant position at any time after 14 August 2009.
This summary of Mr Oliver's submissions implies that if, as has turned out to be the case, we were to reject his claim that the contested passages in the three affidavits should not have been admitted, he would no longer maintain that the evidence on close association admitted at open hearings was incapable of sustaining a rational inference that Peter held a 'relevant position' after 14 August 2009. This is how Mr Lynch, in his written submissions, interpreted Mr Oliver's argument. The relevant passage in Mr Oliver's written submissions was as follows (paragraph 88):-
Even though our rejection of Mr Oliver's claim that there was an unlawful exercise of evidentiary discretion could be regarded as undermining a basic premise of Ground 2(c), we will still discuss the question posed in this Ground.
As Mr Oliver acknowledged, when an internal appeal in the Tribunal is confined to questions of law, a finding of fact in the decision under appeal can only be set aside on the ground of insufficient support from the evidence if the Appeal Panel concludes that there was no logically probative evidence on which it might be based. The Court of Appeal made this clear in a dictum (see Smith & Anor v Collings Homes Pty Ltd & Anor [2004] NSWCA 75 at  [32]) quoted in a later authority (see South Western Sydney Area Health Service v Edmonds  [2007] NSWCA 16 at  [129]) on which Mr Oliver relied:- 
An associated question that received some attention during the hearing of the appeals was the time or times at which the existence of a close association was relevant. Mr Lynch's submissions on this question included two propositions.
The first of these, according with an observation of the Tribunal (at [227]), was that when considering whether the revocation of AVSGA's master licence should be reaffirmed on the ground that Peter, being a close associate, was not fit and proper to hold a licence, the Tribunal should determine whether, as at the time of its own decision, Peter was indeed a close associate. This followed, Mr Lynch said, from the provision in section 63(1) of the ADT Act that the Tribunal should decide what is 'the correct and preferable decision... having regard to the material then before it'.
Mr Lynch's second proposition was however that when the Tribunal was considering the alternative ground that AVSGA contravened a condition of its licence through failing to disclose particulars of a close associate (i.e., Peter), the relevant time was the time when such disclosure should have been made. 
Mr Oliver appeared to agree with the first of these two propositions. He made no comment on the second proposition.
Discussion and conclusion. It is useful to begin this discussion by dealing with the specific question just outlined.
In our opinion, the underlying basis of Mr Lynch's first proposition is correct. It has been held more than once - see for example, Assadourian v Roads and Maritime Services (GD)  [2013] NSWADTAP 46 at  [56 - 60] and Naylor v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2014] NSWCATOD 43 - that the effect of section 63(1) of the ADT Act is to require the Tribunal to 'stand in the shoes of' the administrator whose decision is under review. The Tribunal is obliged to take into consideration not just the material on which the administrator's decision was founded, but all of the material that it has itself admitted into evidence. This may include material that is 'new'; i.e., that did not form part of the evidence taken into account by the administrator. Such 'new' material may be highly significant. The Tribunal may reach the conclusion that the administrator's decision was entirely correct having regard to the evidence on which it was based, but that the 'new' evidence calls for the administrator's decision to be set aside and a different decision substituted.
Contrary to the first proposition as elaborated by Mr Lynch, however, we believe that in the particular circumstances of this case the relevant date is not the date of the Tribunal's decision (10 January 2012). There are two reasons for this. 
The first is that, as mentioned near the commencement of these reasons, the date of expiry shown on AVSGA's licence was 21 October 2011. The question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA after that date could not be important in determining whether its licence was subject to revocation. 
Secondly, a significant period of time - more than six months - elapsed between the final day of the Tribunal hearing (30 June 2011) and the date of its decision (10 January 2012). On the assumption (which as far as we can tell is correct) that no further evidence was received by the Tribunal after the final day of hearing, it seems correct to us to regard this final day as the date on which the scope of the 'material then before it' should be assessed. It was always open to a party to seek leave to adduce further evidence at a later stage. If leave had been granted and the evidence had been admitted, the date of admission of this further evidence would, or at least might, have become the relevant date as at which Peter's status vis--vis AVSGA - i.e., whether or not he was a close associate - would have had to be determined.
The outcome of this reasoning is that, in relation to the revocation of AVSGA's licence on the ground that Peter was both a close associate and not fit and proper to hold a licence, the time as at which these matters should be assessed is 30 June 2011. 
We agree with Mr Lynch's second proposition. It follows that if Peter was a close associate of AVSGA at the time when this should have been disclosed to the Commissioner, it would be irrelevant that he might have ceased to be a close associate by the time of the Tribunal's decision. This change in the situation would have no impact on the fact that a contravention of the licence, providing discretionary grounds for revocation, had previously taken place. 
We turn now to the Appellants' claim that the evidence given in open court was inadequate to the extent that the Tribunal's findings on the question of 'close associate' should be held erroneous in law.
In our opinion, there was clearly evidence on which a finding that Peter was a 'close associate' of AVSGA until 14 August 2009 (being the date singled out in Mr Oliver's submissions) could rationally be based. 
For the reasons that we have just given, this is sufficient to support the conclusion that the Commissioner was entitled, in his discretion, to revoke AVSGA's licence on the ground that it had failed to disclose, providing relevant particulars, that Peter was a close associate. Such disclosure should have been made during 2007, since during that year the Tribunal found (at [218]) that Peter performed 'the role of a manager in the business'. According to the Tribunal, he 'made operational decisions as needed, liaised with and advised clients and dealt with the rostering of personnel'.
The open evidence supporting the Tribunal's findings that he held a relevant position 'as at 2010' (see the first sentence of [228]) and that he continued to hold such a position until 10 January 2012, the date of the Tribunal's decision (see [229], read in conjunction with the first sentence of [227] and the third sentence of [228]), is distinctly weaker. This is the case even when the contested passages in the affidavits of Mr Smith, Constable Wood and Mr Guderjan are taken into consideration. Mr Smith's and Constable Wood's affidavits were dated 25 August 2009 and 16 December 2009 respectively and Mr Guderjan acknowledged, in his affidavit dated 20 August 2010, that he had not spoken to Peter 'of late'.
Furthermore, with reference to the period after 2010, the Tribunal itself said, at [228], that 'there is no evidence that Peter continues to carry out that role'. Its finding, in the next paragraph, that he nonetheless continued to hold a 'relevant position' is an inference, based particularly on the Tribunal's refusal to 'accept his denials' that he held such a position during 2010.
For reasons that we have just given, when the revocation of AVSGA's licence on the mandatory ground that Peter was both a close associate and not fit and proper to hold a licence is under consideration, the time as at which these conditions must be satisfied is 30 June 2011 (or at the latest, 21 October 2011), not 10 January 2012. This may not make much difference, since the evidence as to Peter's continuing to be a close associate until any of these dates was not strong.
The criterion to be applied by us, however, is whether there was an absence of logically probative evidence supporting the Tribunal's finding. Only if this is shown can the Tribunal be said to have erred in law. 
After careful consideration, we have come to the conclusion that this criterion has not been met. As the Tribunal said, the question whether Peter continued beyond 2009 to play a managerial or executive role in the business of AVSGA must be resolved in the light of such inferences as may be drawn from the evidence. The basis for the inference drawn by the Tribunal is not just that it did not accept Peter's denial of playing any such role. It also involves the Tribunal's being satisfied that Tony, the owner and sole director of AVSGA, had neither the capacity nor the experience required to manage the business. There was in our view some probative evidence tending to support the Tribunal's finding of Peter's continuation as a close associate.
For these reasons, we reject the Appellants' claim that the Tribunal's finding of a close association between Peter and AVSGA involved an error of law because it lacked any proper evidentiary basis. It follows that Appeal Ground 2 has not been made out.
If our conclusion that there was a proper evidentiary basis were incorrect, the Tribunal's finding of a close association during and after 2010 would have to be set aside. This would entail also the setting aside of the Tribunal's affirmation of the revocation of AVSGA's licence on the ground of Peter being both a close associate and not fit and proper to hold a licence. But it would not affect the revocation in so far as it was based on AVSGA's failure to disclose to the Commissioner that Peter was a close associate. This disclosure should have been made during 2007, at which time his status as a close associate is not challengeable in these proceedings because the Tribunal's finding relating to this period was clearly based on logically probative evidence.
Appeal Grounds 5, 5A, 6, 6A raised, both in general terms and with reference to specific aspects of the procedures adopted by the Tribunal, the question whether it had denied procedural fairness to the Appellants by taking insufficient account of the requirements in this regard imposed by subsections (1), (2), (3), 4(a), 4(c) and 5(b) of section 73 of the ADT Act.
In the ensuing discussion, we will refer to these provisions collectively as 'the procedural fairness requirements of the ADT Act'.
Mr Oliver argued that while section 29(3) of the SI Act, when applicable, clearly prevented the Tribunal from adopting procedures that were unfair to any applicant seeking review of a decision to revoke a licence, this provision still left considerable scope for the operation of a 'residual duty of procedural fairness', stemming particularly from sections 73(2) and 73(4) of the ADT Act. In support of this proposition, he cited the following passage in the judgment of Sackville AJA in Sleiman (Court of Appeal) at [178]:-
In Appeal Ground 6, the question raised was whether the Tribunal erred in law by operating on the basis that section 29(3) of the SI Act disentitled the Appellants from procedural fairness and/or from the benefits of the procedural fairness requirements of the ADT Act, 'to the extent and/or in the circumstances that the Tribunal held it did, or to any extent or in any circumstances at all'.
Mr Oliver did not identify, and we have been unable to locate, any passage in the Tribunal's decision indicating or implying that in its opinion section 29(3) operated to 'disentitle' the Appellants from common law or statutory requirements of procedural fairness. For this reason and because this Ground did not allege any specific instances of denial of procedural fairness by the Tribunal, we conclude that it has not been made out.
Appeal Ground 5, as developed in oral argument, raised the general question whether, in the light of authorities such as the passage quoted above from Sleiman (Court of Appeal), the Tribunal was required, in proceedings where section 29(3) was applicable, to seek to ameliorate the unfairness occasioned by this provision by considering itself to be subject to a 'heightened' duty of procedural fairness mandating it to take 'proactive' steps for the benefit of the Appellants.
Mr Oliver relied here on principles stated by the Supreme Court in Ekermawi v Administrative Decisions Tribunal  [2009] NSWSC 143 at  [70 - 72] and by the Court of Appeal (upholding this decision) in Jones v Ekermawi  [2009] NSWCA 388 at  [37], [41 - 47].
Once again, this is not an issue that the Tribunal addressed in its decision.
We agree with Mr Oliver that the Ekermawi decisions usefully demonstrate that if in any proceedings the ADT became aware that a party to proceedings had not had an adequate opportunity to address some aspect of the opposing case, the procedural fairness requirements of the ADT Act might require it to take what might be called 'proactive' steps. These could comprise or include, by way of example, relisting the matter for the purpose of allowing the party in question to present further argument. 
To this extent, it may be said that Ground 5 is made out. But because the Tribunal's decision did not include any statement at odds with the proposition stated in this Ground, the Appellants have not established any error of law on its part.
In the numerous sub-paragraphs of Appeal Grounds 5A and 6A (and also in Grounds 20(b) and (c) (AVSGC) and 21(b) and (c) (AVSGA)), the Appellants listed instances of specific procedural measures that, in their submission, the Tribunal either adopted improperly or failed to adopt despite being under a duty to do so. Their argument was that in each of these instances the Tribunal was in breach of its residual duty of procedural fairness through failing to comply with one or more of the procedural requirements of the ADT Act.
We have already dealt with and rejected some of these specific claims of procedural unfairness, on the ground that they were based on interpretations of specific provisions of the SI Act that we have held to be incorrect. This is the case with Appeal Grounds 5A(a), 6A(b), 6A(f), 6A(i), 6A(j), 6A(m), 6A(n), 6A(o), 6A(p) (AVSGA) and 6A(q) (AVSGA). 
We will now consider in turn each of the remaining instances. A number of them appeared to us to be raised in more than one of the sub-paragraphs of Grounds 5A and 6A.
Grounds 5A(b) and 6A(l). The question raised in these two Grounds was whether the Tribunal erred by failing to direct the Commissioner to file copies of any criminal intelligence report or other criminal information (including criminal history) held by him in relation to any person who was an informant, or otherwise a source, of any criminal intelligence report or other criminal information held in relation to any of the Appellants that the Commissioner had or might in due course put before the Tribunal.
At an interlocutory hearing on 29 April 2010, the Tribunal declined to give a direction along these lines. It held that in the Tony proceedings section 29(3) of the SI Act precluded any such direction and that in the Peter proceedings such a direction would be inappropriate even though 'probably' within its power. Our review of the transcripts of the Tribunal hearings from which the Appellants and their legal representatives were excluded indicates that the Tribunal did not give any directions along these lines.
In his submissions to us, Mr Oliver argued that directions of this kind, being authorised by sections 73(2) and 73(5)(b) of the ADT Act, constituted a lawful and reasonably practical means of alleviating the forensic disadvantages affecting the Appellants and discharging the Tribunal's residual duty of procedural fairness.
We do not share the Tribunal's doubts as to whether it had the power to give such directions. But the question whether it was under a duty to act in this way, such that its failure to do so was an error of law giving grounds for appellate intervention, raises distinctly different issues. Mr Oliver did not cite any authority bearing on this specific question, nor indeed did he deal with it at any length. We are not satisfied that such a duty exists.
For these reasons, Appeal Grounds 5A(b) and 6A(l) are not made out.
Grounds 5A(c) and 6A(k). These raised the question whether the Tribunal, in the absence of the Appellants and their legal representatives, heard submissions on questions of law from the Commissioner that were not directed to the content of material that the Tribunal considered to be section 15(6) material. The Appellants' argument was that to the extent that this occurred, the Tribunal was under a duty, which it failed to discharge, to advise the Appellants of the substance of these submissions and to give them an opportunity to respond to them.
We have reviewed the transcripts of the hearings from which the Appellants and their legal representatives were excluded. They indicate that brief submissions of the kind described in these Grounds were made on the Commissioner's behalf at two of these hearings. 
In the first of them, held on 7 June 2011, the submissions dealt with the question of how the Tribunal should deal with an application by the AVSGA applicants for a declaration that the Commissioner did not rely on any section 15(6) material. Since in the appeal proceedings these parties have argued successfully that well before June 2011 there had been implicit disclosure of the existence of such material, we do not regard their exclusion from the relevant part of the hearing on 7 June 2011 as prejudicial to them.
At the second hearing, held on 22 June 2011, the legal issues with which these submissions dealt were (a) whether the Tribunal's obligations under section 29(3) of the SI Act regarding the concealment of information are applicable to 'putative' section 15(6) material and (b) whether these obligations apply only to relevant Criminal Information to which the Commissioner has actually had regard. On both of these issues, counsel for the Appellants presented arguments to the Tribunal. In addition, they were the subject of competing submissions (on which we have delivered rulings) in these appeal proceedings. The content of the brief submissions put on the Commissioner's behalf at the hearing on 22 June 2011 formed part of his argument on these topics during the appeal. 
Accordingly, we do not consider that any prejudice was occasioned to the Appellants by their exclusion from the relevant part of the Tribunal hearing on 22 June 2011. 
Grounds 5A(d), 6A(p) (AVSGC) and 6A(r) (AVSGA). The claim in these Grounds was that the Tribunal was under a duty, which it failed to discharge, to inform the Appellants in relation to the following matters: (i) whether it considered the disclosed part of Confidential Exhibit C6B, the contents of seven other confidential exhibits (C2, C12, C13, C14, C18, C21 and C22) and the contents of 15 non-confidential exhibits (A12, A13 and A27 to A39) to be relevant to the 'fitness and propriety question' and/or to the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA; (ii) if so, how much of that evidence it accepted; and (iii) what weight it attached to the evidence that it accepted.
In its non-confidential reasons, the Tribunal did not provide any particulars of the evidence on which it relied in determining that Peter was not a fit and proper person to hold a security licence. It simply stated as follows at [234]:-
We have already outlined the Tribunal's description of the open evidence on which it relied in deciding that Peter was a close associate of AVSGA.
If these had been proceedings in which all the admitted evidence had been disclosed to all the parties, we would be sympathetic to the argument that a bald statement of preference (such as appears in paragraph [234] of the Tribunal's decision) for the evidence tendered by the successful party would not satisfy the requirements regarding reasons for decisions that apply at common law or are set out in section 89(5) of the ADT Act. But since in this case the Tribunal took account of section 15(6) material that it was obliged to conceal from the Appellants, it could not include in its non-confidential reasons an outline of all the evidence that it accepted and the weight that it gave to the various parts of this evidence. 
We agree with Mr Oliver that, consistently with the requirements of section 29(3), it could have provided an outline of this nature relating to the non-confidential evidence. It did so in its discussion of the 'close associate' question but not when determining the 'fitness and propriety' question.
We are not persuaded, however, that any such lacuna in the Tribunal's reasons is such as to justify appellate interference. Even if these reasons had disclosed, with regard to the non-confidential evidence on the 'fitness and propriety' question, the matters which (in the Appellants' submission) it should have disclosed, this would not have materially assisted any argument by them that the Tribunal's ruling on this question should be set aside. They would still encounter the obstacle that the confidential evidence on this question on which the Tribunal relied might provide ample justification for its ruling.
Grounds 5A(e), 6A(q) (AVSGC) and 6A(s) (AVSGA). The general question raised in these Grounds of Appeal was whether the Tribunal failed, in any way not identified in the other Grounds, to take procedural steps open to it to ameliorate the procedural unfairness occasioned to the Appellants by the operation of section 29(3) of the SI Act.
As Mr Lynch submitted in responding to Grounds 5 and 6, these particular sub-paragraphs of Grounds 5A and 6A are expressed at a high level of abstraction and generality. It is not open to an appellant, in our opinion, to seek from an Appeal Panel an order overturning a Tribunal decision on the ground of any error, not referred to in the Notice of Appeal or the appellant's submissions, that the Panel might itself discern in the decision.
Grounds 6A(c), 6A(d) and 15. In these Grounds, the Appellants claimed that the Tribunal breached its residual duty to ensure procedural fairness by failing (i) to disclose to them, prior to the publication of its reasons, whether it considered that material relating to the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA could be section 15(6) material and (ii) to disclose to them, in its non-confidential reasons or otherwise, whether it had in fact had regard to such material in determining this question.
As we understand Mr Oliver's submissions, the basis for both of these claims was the proposition that material bearing on the question whether Peter was a close associate of AVSGA could not be section 15(6) material.
We have already held to the contrary. For the reasons outlined above at [130 - 138], our view is that one of the matters on which AVSGA's fitness to hold a master licence depended was whether or not Peter was its close associate and that accordingly material bearing on this question could be section 15(6) material.
It could be argued that even if this view is correct, the Tribunal should still have advised the Appellants, before the proceedings before it were completed, that it adhered to this view, and should also have indicated in its published reasons whether or not it actually took account of section 15(6) material in determining the close association question.
It seems to us that the Tribunal could have adopted the first of these measures without breaching section 29(3). But we do not consider that its failure to do so caused any material prejudice to the Appellants. It is clear from the Tribunal's non-confidential reasons that they were provided with, and availed themselves of, a sufficient opportunity to tender their own evidence on the close association question and to contest the non-confidential evidence adduced in this context by the Commissioner. Since they could not (except with the Commissioner's approval) ascertain the content of any additional material adduced in confidence by the Commissioner and held by the Tribunal to be section 15(6) material, we do not see how they could have been assisted by knowing, during the course of the hearing, that the Tribunal was prepared to accept that material relating to the close association question could be section 15(6) material. For much the same reason, we do not discern any material prejudice to the Appellants by virtue of the Tribunal's failure to adopt the second measure. Without being aware of the content of any section 15(6) material relied on by the Tribunal in this context, they could not benefit significantly from being informed in its reasons that it did rely on such material.
It follows that Grounds 6A(c), 6A(d) and 15 have not been made out.
Grounds 6A(e), (g) and (h); 20(b) and (c) (AVSGC); 21(b) and (c) (AVSGA). These Grounds all related to the Tribunal's disallowance, on 6 April 2011, of the three 'disputed questions' that counsel for the Appellants put to Mr Cameron Smith, the Registrar of the Security Industry Registry (see [189 - 198] above). 
The matters raised in these Grounds can be summarised in the following way as four related claims. The Tribunal failed to discharge its residual duty of procedural fairness by virtue of the following aspects of its conduct of the proceedings: (i) it did not give due notice to the Appellants of any grounds on which it proposed to disallow these questions; (ii) it did not give them an opportunity to address these grounds; (iii) it did not provide them with reasons for the disallowance, despite being requested to do so; and (iv) it did not inform them, in its published decision or otherwise, why it failed to advise them of these reasons.
In his submissions relating to Grounds 20(b) and (c) (AVSGC); 21(b) and (c) (AVSGA), Mr Lynch argued that these issues did not arise in the AVSGC proceedings, because Mr Smith's evidence was given at a hearing relating to the 'close association' question in the AVSGA proceedings. He argued further that the Tribunal was required, at this stage of these proceedings, not to disclose even the existence (let alone the content) of any material claimed by the Commissioner to be section 15(6) material. It followed, he said, that the Tribunal was prohibited by section 29(3) of the SI Act from indicating to the Appellants that a claim of this nature was being made or (after it had ruled that the three disputed questions were disallowed) that the ground of disallowance stemmed from section 29(3).
We have already ruled, however, that well before 6 April 2011 the existence of material claimed to be section 15(6) material had been sufficiently 'disclosed' to the applicants in the AVSGA proceedings: see the discussion at [199 - 233] above.
In our opinion, however, Mr Oliver's claim that the Tribunal breached its residual duty of procedural fairness is significantly weakened by the fact that, as indicated above at [233], the AVSGA applicants were able to infer, at the time of the Tribunal's ruling, that the ground of disallowance was a determination by it that the questions put to Mr Smith sought the disclosure of section 15(6) material. 
In the light of these considerations, our opinion regarding each of the four claims by the Appellants that we have just outlined is as follows. 
As to (i), the Tribunal could and in fact should have indicated to the AVSGA applicants that a ground on which the Commissioner objected to the disputed questions was that they sought the disclosure of section 15(6) material. This would not have involved the disclosure of the 'existence' of such material contrary to section 29(3) because such disclosure had already occurred. But as our ruling regarding claim (ii) demonstrates, this failure on the Tribunal's part did not cause any material prejudice to the applicants. 
We are not persuaded as to claim (ii). In so far as one of the factors affecting the Tribunal's disallowance of the disputed questions was its belief that evidence relating to the close association question could be section 15(6) material, the AVSGA applicants did have an opportunity, of which they availed themselves, to argue that this belief was incorrect. We do not see how the Tribunal could have given them an opportunity to respond to arguments by the Commissioner directed to the content of the answers that Mr Smith would give to the disputed questions, because this would have involved disclosure of the content of material that was claimed to fall within section 15(6). Our earlier ruling relating to disclosure of the content of 'putative' section 15(6) material (see [93 - 96]) is applicable here.
With regard to claim (iii), we consider that the AVSGA applicants did not suffer any prejudice through not being informed as to the ground of the disallowance. The reason is that, as Mr Oliver maintained in his submissions to us, they were able to infer what this ground was.
Having regard to our rulings on claims (i) to (iii), the alleged procedural error asserted in claim (iv) could not, in our opinion, occasion any prejudice to the Appellants. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Grounds of Appeal that we have just discussed, set out in a number of subparagraphs of Grounds 5A and 6A, are not made out at all, or to the extent that appellate interference is justified. The same applies to Grounds 20(b) and (c) (AVSGC) and 21(b) and (c) (AVSGA).
Grounds 22 and 23 (AVSGC) and 23 and 24 (AVSGA) do not arise because they are conditional on the Appellants' claims of certain errors by the Tribunal being upheld. We have not accepted these claims.
In the AVSGC appeal (129004), we have held that the Grounds of Appeal have not been established or (in the case of some of them) have not been made out to an extent justifying appellate interference with the Tribunal's decision.
Subject to one qualification, we have reached conclusions to the same effect in the AVSGA appeal (129003). The qualification (explained above at 415 - 424]) is that if we have erred in rejecting the Appellants' claim that there was no proper evidentiary basis for the Tribunal's finding that Peter continued to be a 'close associate' of AVSGA until 30 June 2011, the alternative ground on which the Commissioner revoked AVSGA's licence - namely, failure to disclose a close associate in breach of a condition attached to its licence - remains valid. In its decision at [230] and [235], the Tribunal relied on this ground. There is no reason why this aspect of its decision should be disturbed.
It follows that both of these appeals must be dismissed. 
############# I'm default separator ##########51
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - question of law.
This is an application for leave to appeal and an appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. 
Trevor Draper and Sharon Draper are owners of land at [XXXX], Caringbah (the Draper Property). Ian Gibbs is the owner of land at [XXXX], Caringbah (the Gibbs Property). The Draper Property and the Gibbs Property adjoin and share a common boundary. There is a swimming pool on the Gibbs Property. Part of the dividing fence on the common boundary is also a child proof barrier for the swimming pool. 
Trevor and Sharon Draper are the appellants. Ian Gibbs is the respondent. For convenience, we will refer to the parties as Mr Gibbs and the Drapers.
The matter concerned an application by Mr Gibbs pursuant to the Dividing Fences Act, 1991, for an Order for Fencing Work as specified in a notice served by Mr Gibbs on the Drapers under s 11 of that Act (the Notice). The contents of the Notice were as follows: (1) The fencing work to be carried out on the common boundary of the adjoining lands (addresses listed)....; (2) The fencing work consists of approximately 38m of 1.8m (height) Colorbond (Colour - Riversand). The fencing will start at the western boundary (adjoining Milton's eastern fence) of the common line and extend for 38m in an easterly direction along that boundary. (3) The estimated cost of the fencing work of $2550 (+GST) is to be born (sic) in equal proportions of $1275.00 (+GST). 
The Drapers did not agree to the proposed fencing work.
On 22 February 2013, Mr Gibbs filed an application to the Local Land Board for an order for the fencing work as specified in the Notice. 
The application was part heard by the Local Land Board on 5 December 2013. Local Land Boards were abolished by amendments to the Crown Lands Act 1989 on 31 December 2013.
The Tribunal commenced on 1 January 2014 and the jurisdiction to hear and determine applications under the Dividing Fences Act 1991 thereafter was given to the Tribunal (see Schedule 1, s 7(2) of the (CATA). The Tribunal then continued to hear and determine the application.
The Tribunal set out the evidence before it from each party at [16] -[17] of its reasons. 
At [18]- [24] of its reasons it set out the relevant provisions of the Dividing Fences Act, including s 6 of that Act under which the Tribunal is to make a determination as to whether there is a sufficient dividing fence. The Tribunal held that it is only after there is a determination by it that there is no sufficient dividing fence that the jurisdiction granted by the Act to make fencing orders is triggered: Alwiah v Watts & Anor  [2004] NSWSC 948; Brown v Doyle  [2012] NSWSC 1269; Larney v Johannson  [2012] NSWSC 1297 (affirmed on appeal Larney v Johannson [2013] NSWCA 409 but on different grounds). There is no appeal from the finding of the Tribunal that the existing dividing fence was not a sufficient dividing fence.
The Tribunal held that, having decided there was no sufficient dividing fence, it was open to it to determine the standard of a sufficient dividing fence for which adjoining land owners should contribute in accordance with the Act.
The Tribunal also set out relevant provisions of the Swimming Pools Act 1992. This was relevant because 18 meters of the dividing fence on the boundary between the Draper Property and the Gibbs Property was also to be a swimming pool child-resistant barrier for a pool on the Gibbs Property. There is no dispute about that; rather the dispute was as to the nature of materials to be used to construct the whole of the dividing fence, including that part which is to constitute the child-resistant barrier within the meaning of the Swimming Pools Act
The provisions of the Act referred to by the Tribunal were s 32 and s 33 of that Act. They relevantly state:
The Tribunal correctly held that the effect of these provisions was that the owner of the premises on which the swimming pool is situated, is responsible for the whole of the cost of a dividing fence that serves also as a child-resistant barrier in order to comply with the Swimming Pools Act.
With respect to the length of the dividing fence the subject of the application, the Tribunal noted that the Notice referred to in [4] above, was only in respect of the replacement of 38 metres of dividing fence. However, following a view of the properties by the Tribunal, it appeared that the length of the whole of the common boundary on which the dividing fence was situated was in fact 50 metres. The Tribunal thereafter used 50 metres as the relevant length of the dividing fence the subject of the application. There is no appeal from that aspect of the Tribunal's reasons. Indeed, as can be seen from the evidence the Drapers put before the Tribunal (at [17]), the Drapers provided numerous quotes for fencing work on the basis of a 1.8 metres high, 50 metres long dividing fence.
The Tribunal also referred to s 4 of the Dividing Fences Act. This section sets out the requirements for the Tribunal to make a determination of what is a sufficient dividing fence. That section provides:
The Tribunal considered the matters required and determined that: (1) the existing dividing fence was a hardwood timber fence with posts and palings which was in poor condition. As noted, it found that the existing dividing fence was not a sufficient dividing fence; (2) the adjoining lands are used for residential purposes and part of Mr Gibbs' land was used for swimming pool purposes. Further, the types of fence proposed by each party (a Colorbond fence by Mr Gibbs and a treated pine paling fence by the Drapers) were each consistent with a usual dividing fence in residential areas. It was common ground that whatever the nature of the dividing fence, it is to be 1.8 metres high; (3) as to privacy, the 1.8 metres high fence (of whatever construction) would address a higher level of privacy than currently existed. As to the other concerns of the parties, the Tribunal noted that it was the type of material to be used to construct the dividing fence that caused the greatest concern to the parties. It set out each party's contentions and concerns as to why the fence should be constructed using their preferred material. As we have noted, Mr Gibbs proposed a Colorbond fence and the Drapers proposed a treated pine paling fence; (4) In relation to the kind of dividing fence in the locality, the Tribunal considered Mr Gibbs' contention that 20 of the 28 properties within 100m of his land had Colorbond fences. It also considered the Drapers having identified by reference to an aerial photograph they tendered as exhibit A 1, that there were approximately 20 timber dividing and rear fences for 15 adjoining properties. The Tribunal found that the evidence of each party on this issue was selective and that they had reached different conclusions on similar facts. It therefore placed most weight on the results of a view it conducted at the properties. As a result of that view it found that the locality had a mix of fencing of both Colorbond and timber and, as such, there was no clear indicator of a single type of fencing used in the locality and one was not more predominant than the other; (5) The Tribunal found there was no evidence before it as to any policy or code relating to dividing fences which had been adopted by the local authority; and (6) The tribunal found that there was no evidence before it as to any relevant planning instrument relating to the adjoining lands.
Having regard to the matters referred to above and all of the circumstances of the case, including the fact that part of the dividing fence was also required as a child-resistant barrier to Mr Gibbs' swimming pool, the Tribunal concluded that a Colorbond fence was a sufficient dividing fence for the purposes of both the requirements it was to fulfil. That is, the Colorbond fence was a sufficient dividing fence and also an appropriate fence to be used for the 18 metres of the common boundary which necessitated a child-resistant barrier under the Swimming Pools Act. Important to the Tribunal's conclusion in this regard was that a fence used as a dividing fence and a swimming pool barrier had to incorporate the requirements of both uses. It found as follows:
Having noted the different types of materials the parties submitted ought to be used, and their intractable positions, the Tribunal found:
Noting it was Mr Gibbs who bore the onus of satisfying the Tribunal that he is entitled to the orders he sought, the Tribunal found that, having found that there was no sufficient dividing fence, it could make any of the orders contemplated by s 14 of the Dividing Fences Act. It determined :
The Tribunal made the following orders: (1) The existing dividing fence between the applicant's land and the respondent's land is to be demolished and removed and the fence line cleared sufficiently to allow the fencing work the subject of these orders. (2) A new Colorbond sheet metal dividing fence 1.8 metres high is to be erected on the common boundary line between the applicant's and respondent's adjoining lands. (3) The fencing work is to be carried out by David Evans & Son in accordance with their quote of 16 October 2013 for a Colorbond fence. (4) The applicant is responsible for the cost of the fencing work including the cost of the fencing work for the approximately 18 metres of the dividing fence that forms his swimming pool child proof safety barrier. (5) The respondent's contribution to the cost of the fencing work will be 50% of the cost of 32 metres of fencing work as quoted by David Evans & Son ("Fencing Contractor") regardless of the final cost, that is $1,371.52. (6) The applicant must pay the whole of the cost of the fencing work to the Fencing Contractor and will be the only party to give instructions to the Fencing Contractor in relation to the carrying out of the fencing work. (7) Subject to the availability of the Fencing Contractor, the fencing work is to be completed within two (2) months of the date of these orders. (8) The fencing work is to be carried out in a good and workmanlike manner using new materials. (9) The Fencing Contractor is to be paid on the day the fencing work is completed. (10) The respondents are to pay to the applicant their contribution, as ordered on these orders, within seven (7) days of completion of the fencing work, without deduction or allowance.
By Notice of Appeal dated 3 June 2014 the Drapers seek leave to appeal from certain parts of the Tribunal's decision and to appeal other parts of the decision on the basis that they involve questions of law.
Before discussing whether leave ought be granted, it is necessary to set out the grounds of appeal as set out in the Notice of Appeal.
The Notice of Appeal challenges orders 2, 3 and 5 of the Tribunal as set out at 22 above. 
The grounds of appeal are stated below. There was a numbering error in the Notice of Appeal in that there was no ground 3, but a ground 4 immediately after ground 2. There are 5 grounds of appeal listed in the Notice of Appeal. They are as follows: (1) Point of law that the Applicant, Mr Gibbs, can choose the fence material based on the decision that because the Applicant must comply with the Swimming Pool Act (sic) he therefore chooses the type of dividing fence (2) Point of law that no law requires a treated pine fence to be modified to satisfy the Swimming Pool Act (sic) & Regulations (3) The weight of evidence regarding the type fencing that is common in the locality (4) No inconsistency between s 33(2) of the Swimming Pool Act (sic) and the Dividing Fences Act in this matter. (5) Denial of natural justice - how the Tribunal decided that the fence should be Colorbond rather than timber i.e. that the applicant has the choice of fencing material."
It can be seen from these grounds that grounds 1, 2 and 4 seek to raise questions of law. In our opinion, they do raise questions of law. As such, no leave is required. 
As discussed below, ground 3 does not raise a question of law and requires leave to appeal. 
In respect of ground 5 as it is expressed in the Notice of Appeal, although it states that the issue is one of natural justice, a closer examination shows it in fact relates to whether, on the proper construction of the Dividing Fences Act and the Swimming Pools Act, Mr Gibbs could choose the materials for which that part of the dividing fence which was also to be used as a child safety barrier for his pool. This is a question of law and does not require leave.
There are, however, other matters sought to be agitated by the Drapers in the material they have served which go to procedural fairness. Leave is required before such matters can be the subject of an appeal.
The orders sought by the Drapers in the appeal are stated in the Notice of Appeal to be: (1) A new treated pine dividing fence 1.8m high is to be erected on the common boundary line between the Applicant's and Respondent's adjoining land (new quotes req'd).
As the decision was a final decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, in answer to question 12B on the Notice of Appeal, it was indicated that leave to appeal was sought. 
Under the heading in the Notice of Appeal " i Decision not fair and equitable" (being one of the bases which may have led to a substantial miscarriage of justice so as to enliven leave to appeal) the Drapers stated: "Refer attached reasons for various points of law". We will return to the attached reasons below but note, of course, that if the appeal is made on questions of law, no leave is required.
Under the heading in the Notice of Appeal "Decision of the Tribunal against the weight of evidence" (being another basis on which leave may be granted) and the sub-heading "What evidence did you give at the hearing? What documents did you show the Tribunal it is stated: " Refer attached details regarding type of dividing fence"
Under the heading in the Notice of Appeal: What decision do you think the Tribunal should have made, given the evidence/documents presented at the original hearing? it is stated: "The Tribunal Should have ordered that the existing 50 m of insufficient dividing fence be replaced with 50m of 1.8m high treated pine dividing fence" (emphasis added). We have emphasised the words "insufficient dividing fence" as it indicates that there is no appeal from the findings of the Tribunal firstly, that the length of the dividing fence the subject of the application was 50 metres and, secondly, that the existing 50 metres of dividing fence was not a sufficient dividing fence.
A stay was sought of orders 2 and 3 of the Tribunal. The stay was refused on 17 June 2014 by the Appeal Panel constituted by Principal Member Harrowell. The reasons for the refusal were that as part of the dividing fence in this case was also a child-resistant barrier as required by the Swimming Pools Act and the Tribunal had found that the existing fence was not a sufficient dividing fence, in the absence of suitable evidence from the appellants that there was no danger arising from an unfenced swimming pool, it was not appropriate to grant a stay. 
As we have indicated, the Notice of Appeal has attached to it 6 typed pages setting out the reasons why the Drapers assert that leave to appeal, if required, should be granted. We will consider the matters raised relevant to each ground of appeal.
Finally, before we consider the merits of the application for leave to appeal, and the appeal in so far as leave is not required, we note that on 20 June 2014 the Tribunal received a letter from the Drapers headed "Significant New Evidence". The letter in effect seeks to add a further ground of appeal (for which leave is required) to rely on new evidence, not reasonably available at the time of the hearing. That new evidence was said to be that Mr Gibbs had started to erect in excess of 18 metres of internal metal swimming pool fence adjacent to the existing paling dividing fence. We will treat this letter, to which Mr Gibbs has responded by letter dated 8 July 2014 as a further ground of appeal, ground 6. It is important to return to this evidence later in these reasons.
On 17 June 2014 the Appeal Panel made the following directions: (2) On or before 30 June 2014 the appellant is to file and serve: (a) all evidence in support of any application for leave to appeal; (b) a copy of the audio sound recording of the hearing before the Tribunal on 6 May 2014 and a typed copy of any evidence in that sound recording on which the appellants seek to rely; and (c) submissions, including in relation to: (i) why leave to appeal should be granted and why an oral hearing is necessary on the grant of leave; and (ii) why any oral hearing of the appeal (if leave is granted) should not be dispensed with pursuant to section 50(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013. (3) On or before 14 July 2014 the respondents are to file and serve any evidence and submissions in response to the appellant's submissions and evidence required by orders 2 above, including a typed copy of any evidence in that sound recording on which the respondent sees to rely; (4) On or before 21 July the appellants are to file and serve any evidence and submissions in reply. (5) The respondent is otherwise to file a Reply as required by the Rules. (6) The matter will be referred to the appeal panel after the for submissions has closed to determine whether a hearing is to be dispensed with and the matter determined on the papers.
On 25 June 2014 the time for compliance with these directions was extended.
The Appeal panel has the following material before it from the Drapers: (1) The Notice of Appeal and 6 page typed document attached to it explaining why leave ought to be granted; (2) A letter dated 14 July 2014 enclosing: (a) A document called "Appeal Panel File No. AP 14/0225 Trevor & Sharon Draper v Ian Gibbs Exhibit 1" (this document is really just submissions and we will call it the Appeal Submissions); (b) A document called "References to Transcript of Hearing made by Trevor & Sharon Draper"; (c) A document called "Comments on Mr Gibbs Reply to Appeal" (3) A copy of the audio sound recording of the hearing before the Tribunal. (4) A letter dated 20 June 2014 referring to "significant new evidence", namely that Mr Gibbs had started to construct a Colorbond fence as a swimming pool fence adjacent to the dividing fence. (5) A letter dated 1 August 2014 clarifying some matters in the abovementioned material and attaching a further two pages of submissions in reply.
In the letter referred to in 2. Above, the Drapers indicated that they had no objection to the appeal being dealt with on the papers, that is, without an oral hearing. They also said that: "leave to appeal should be granted on the grounds we have given in our submissions. Please refer our Notice of Appeal and Evidence".
The Appeal Panel has before it the following material from Mr Gibbs: (1) Reply to Appeal with a 1 page typed attachment; (2) A letter dated 8 July 2014 and received by the Tribunal on 11 July 2014 titled," Re Mr & Mrs Draper's Significant New Evidence " in response to the Draper's letter dated 20 June 2014.
In his Reply to the Appeal, Mr Gibbs ticked the boxes indicating that he had no objection to the application for leave and the appeal each being heard on the papers. In the attachment to his Reply, Mr Gibbs, as well as making some submissions in response to the Drapers' submissions said: "I do not see any new information in Mr and Mrs Draper's appeal, it has all been contained in their previous documents/submissions and therefore there is little point in arguing the detail again". 
Having regard to the material and submissions that have been placed before the Appeal Panel, we are satisfied that the issues for determination can be adequately determined in the absence of the parties by considering that material and those submissions. Each party has consented to the appeal being determined without a hearing.
Accordingly, we propose to make an order pursuant to s 50(2) of the CATA to dispense with a hearing.
As the decision was a final decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, unless the appeal is on a question of law, leave is required to appeal (see s 80(2) CATA). When considering applications for leave to appeal from such decisions, the Appeal Panel is required to be satisfied of the matters set out in cl 12 of schedule 4 of the Act. That clause relevantly provides:
The principles to be applied by the Appeal Panel in considering an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division were discussed in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [65]- [84]. After considering the relevant authorities, the Appeal Panel stated:
Of course, if the Appeal Panel is satisfied that an appellant from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on one of the grounds identified in cl 12 (1) (a), (b) or (c), then it may grant leave under s 80(2) of CATA. It retains a discretion in this regard. In exercising that discretion, the principles applicable were summarised by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban at [84]. 
In considering the grounds of appeal which require leave, we will apply the principles referred to in [48] and [49] above.
The Drapers submit that the conclusion of the Tribunal that it was not satisfied that one type of fence, that is a Colorbond fence as opposed to treated pine paling fence, was predominant over the other in the locality was against the weight of the evidence before it. In particular, the Drapers submit that this finding ignores the "recent survey" they undertook based upon, but not limited to, the aerial photograph which was contained in exhibit A 1. The "recent survey", which included canvassing neighbours, is referred to in the document attached to the Notice of Appeal. It is also referred to in the Appeal Submissions.
Exhibit A 1 was before the Tribunal but there is no evidence that the recent survey as recorded in the attachment to the Notice of Appeal and the Appeal Submissions was. According to the Drapers, that "survey" indicated that timber fencing was predominant in the locality in that 25 of 38 dividing fences in the locality were timber. 
In so far as this "recent survey" is sought to be introduced as new evidence, there is no explanation as to why that evidence could not have been led at the Tribunal. It clearly could have been. We reject it as evidence in the appeal.
Although it was not served as evidence in the appeal, we have reviewed the contents of Exhibit A 1 (the aerial photograph) from the file. Mr Gibbs had made submissions about this photo in the Tribunal. Further, it was mentioned several times by the Drapers in the Appeal Submissions and their Notice of Appeal. Mr Gibbs chose not to respond to it but noted, as we have observed above, "there is little point in arguing [the matters put by the Drapers in the Tribunal] again". Accordingly, we do not think Mr Gibbs is prejudiced by us looking at the photo in the appeal.
The photo shows that there are both metal fences and timber fences in the locality of the properties. Whilst there may be more timber fences than metal fences, we do not think it could be said that one was predominant over the other.
We have also considered the document filed and served in the Appeal by the Drapers containing typed extracts of the transcript of the recording of the hearing that they wish to rely upon. Whilst some reference is made to a survey, none of the matters identified by the Drapers go into the detail that the "recent survey" does. 
We have listened to the recording of the hearing which is in the material before us. Whilst at times the solicitor for the Drapers refers to his client's survey and seeks to distinguish it from Mr Gibbs "quick count", such references are said to arise from Exhibit A 1 to which he expressly took the Tribunal. As we have noted, there is no survey evidence attached to that exhibit. The only material is the photo with different fences marked in different colours. The result to be gleaned from that photograph was properly a matter raised by the Draper's solicitor in submissions.
It appears to us that the Tribunal did consider the material placed before it by the Drapers, including the aerial photograph in Exhibit A 1. The Tribunal specifically recorded at [43] the Drapers submissions that the aerial photograph shows approximately 20 timber dividing and rear fences for 15 properties.
The Tribunal also considered the material placed before it by Mr Gibbs as to the nature of dividing fences in the locality and his "observation" that 20 of the 28 properties within 100 metres of his land had some Colorbond fencing.
The Tribunal was required to consider the issue of the kind of fencing used in the locality as one of the circumstances dictated by s 4 of the Dividing Fences Act. As we have noted at [18](d) above, the Tribunal found that neither parties evidence was determinative. Indeed, it is apparent that the Tribunal did not find either party's evidence as to the predominant type of fence in the locality persuasive. The most significant factor in the Tribunal concluding as it did was the view it undertook of the properties and the fences constructed on them.
In the Appeal Submissions and in the document attached to the Notice of Appeal, the Drapers submit that the Tribunal had a limited opportunity to assess the fences in the locality when it conducted the view. They submit that the Tribunal could not have properly formed a concluded opinion on what type of fences there were in the locality based on the view it did conduct. However, the fact of the matter is that the Tribunal did conduct a view and in the opinion of the Appeal Panel was entitled to draw conclusions from what it observed.
The evidence that the Drapers rely on in support of their contention that the Tribunal's decision in this regard was against the weight of the evidence is the " recent survey" conducted by them. As we have noted, there is no evidence that the results of the recent survey were before the Tribunal. The matters referred to by the Drapers in their appeal papers as to the conduct of the recent survey by Mrs Draper, including how it was done and her apparent qualifications to do so, were not so far as we can tell, matters before the Tribunal. There is no application for those matters to be considered by us as new evidence. Even if there was, as we have stated, there is no reason such matters could not have been put before the Tribunal and there is no basis for us to accept those matters as new evidence on the appeal.
As we have observed above, in order for leave to be granted, we must be satisfied that the Drapers may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice in the sense identified in Collins v Urban relevantly at [77]. That is, we must be satisfied that the evidence in its totality preponderates so strongly against the conclusion found by the Tribunal that it can be said that the conclusion was not one that a reasonable tribunal member could reach. 
We are not satisfied that this is the case in relation to the Tribunal's finding the subject of this ground of appeal. There was evidence as to the types of fences in the locality led by the Drapers. There was conflicting evidence from Mr Gibbs. Further, the Tribunal did attend the properties and conduct a view. Even if it was limited, the findings of the Tribunal in this regard are not, in our opinion, such that having regard to all of the evidence available to it, including the Drapers photographic survey, no reasonable tribunal member could make. We have reviewed the photograph and it does show fences of both metal and timber in the locality.
Accordingly, we refuse leave to appeal on the ground that the decision of the Tribunal as to the type of fence predominant in the locality was against the weight of the evidence.
There is some confusion as to what this ground goes to. It appears from the material attached to the Notice of Appeal and the Appeal Submissions, that this ground in reality deals with the question of law as to whether Mr Gibbs, being required to use part of the dividing fence as a child-resistant barrier for the purposes of the Swimming Pools Act, and being responsible for the cost of that part of the dividing fence, can therefore choose what materials that part of the dividing fence is constructed of. It is in essence the same as ground 1. When viewed this way, we do not think this is a ground which requires leave as it raises a question of law. 
In the document attached to the Notice of Appeal, reasons are advanced in support of this ground suggesting that the decision was not fair and equitable. If that were truly the ground of appeal, leave to appeal would be required by reason of cl 12 of schedule 4 CATA. However, we think the reasons advanced both in that document and in the Appeal Submissions raise a question of law in respect to the operation and interaction of the Dividing Fences Act and the Swimming Pools Act. As such no leave is required. We will deal with that question when we deal with ground 1. We take the reference to the concept of natural justice as raising a question of law.
There are submissions made by the Drapers, however, as to an asserted denial of procedural fairness. These assertions are found both in the document attached to the Notice of Appeal at pages 5 and 6 under the heading "Procedural fairness - bias" and in the Appeal Submissions at pages 10-13 under the heading "Procedural bias". 
It is important that the Notice of Appeal properly state the grounds of appeal and, if leave is required the reasons why leave should be granted. This has not been done here and we do not propose to treat these submissions as going to any of the identified grounds of appeal. 
If we were prepared to treat these submissions as a further ground of appeal asserting that there had been a denial of procedural fairness to or bias against the Drapers, we would not have granted leave to appeal. 
If there has been a denial of procedural fairness, the decision can be said to have been not fair and equitable (see Collins v Urban at [77](1) and the authorities there cited). A ground of appeal on the basis of a denial of procedural fairness would therefore require leave: cl 12 sch 4(1)(a) CATA.
As we perceive it from the material relied upon by the Drapers for this allegation, their main complaints relate to two things. Firstly, the Drapers assert that there has been undue delay in the hearing of the matter since 22 February 2013. Secondly, they assert that evidence they had provided to the Local Land Board and then the Tribunal file went missing prejudicing the presentation of their case.
As to the first matter, we do not accept that there has been such a delay so as to amount to procedural unfairness. Whilst ideally, matters of this type should be heard in a timely manner as is possible, we do not think that the delay here was such that the Drapers were prejudiced. We cannot conclude that the Drapers were denied a fair hearing as a result of any delay. 
The second ground of complaint by the Drapers arises from the fact that apparently, on more than one occasion, material they had filed in the Local Land Board when it was to hear the matter, and then in the Tribunal, was not on file. The Drapers submit that this meant that the Tribunal had not considered that material when it conducted the view and that it impeded the presentation of their case by their solicitor (for example because tags placed by him on his copy of the evidence were removed when that evidence was copied). 
We are not satisfied that the Drapers may have suffered any substantial miscarriage of justice by reason of this matter. All of the evidence they wished to rely on was placed before the Tribunal. It is not said that any of the missing evidence could not be reproduced so that they could not rely on it. It is apparent from the audio recording of the hearing that the presentation of their case by their solicitor was not impeded in any significant way. 
The Drapers complained to the Attorney General's Department about the fact of their evidence going missing and "administrative errors" of the Tribunal's registry which they say caused the evidence they had filed to go missing. In the document attached to their Notice of Appeal they ask: "Has our complaint created a bias?" In so far as this is some veiled attempt to submit that the Tribunal was affected by actual or apprehended bias such as to infect its decision, such a suggestion is without merit.
As to actual bias, such a finding is a grave matter and the circumstances in which actual bias can be demonstrated solely from the published reasons for decision are said to be rare and exceptional: Reid v Commercial Club (Albury) Ltd  [2014] NSWCA 98 at  [68]- [74]. As to apprehended bias, the test is whether a fair-minded lay observer might reasonably apprehend that the Tribunal might not bring an impartial and unprejudiced mind to the resolution of the question to be determined: Michael Wilson & Partners Limited v Nicholls  [2011] HCA 48;  244 CLR 427; see also the discussion in Reid v Commercial Club (Albury) Ltd, supra at [75]-[78].
If such a suggestion is to be raised, it ought to have been raised squarely as a ground of appeal. It is not. No complaint was made by the Draper's solicitor to the Tribunal about bias. If any grounds for complaint did exist, they may have been waived, however, it is not necessary for us to determine this as we do not believe there is any basis for such a complaint to have been raised then or now. There is certainly no evidence to show actual bias by the Tribunal either in the manner in which it conducted the hearing or from its reasons for decision. Nor, in our opinion, is there any evidence to conclude that a fair-minded lay observer might have apprehended that the Tribunal might not have brought an impartial and unprejudiced mind to the resolution of the question before it. 
For the above reasons, we do not believe the Draper's may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice as a result of a lack of any procedural fairness so that the result of the Tribunal's hearing was not fair or equitable. We would therefore have refused them leave to appeal on any such ground if it was properly set out in the Notice of Appeal.
From the passages we have set out at [18] above, it appears to us that the Tribunal made the following critical findings as a result of the fact that 18 metres of the dividing fence was also to be a child-resistant safety barrier for the purposes of the Swimming Pools Act: (a) that the 18 metre length of fence to be used as the child-resistant barrier was not a length of fence to which the Drapers were obliged to contribute as it was excluded from the provisions of the Dividing Fences Act by the provisions of the Swimming Pools Act; (b) a fence used as a swimming pool fence and a dividing fence must incorporate the requirements of both uses; (c) if a treated pine fence is used it will need to be modified by Mr Gibbs in order to comply with his obligations under the Swimming Pools Act.  (d) Compliance with the obligations under the Swimming Pools Act is solely a matter for Mr Gibbs and no liability falls on the Drapers; (e) If Mr Gibbs was obliged to provide a child-resistant barrier in compliance with the Swimming Pools Act then the material used and method of construction is his responsibility as owner of the pool and neither the Dividing Fences Act nor the Swimming Pools Act contemplates otherwise; (f) It is therefore a matter for Mr Gibbs to choose how he complies with his swimming pool obligations as he is solely responsible for the cost of that fence and liable to comply with the law.
The findings in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) above may be accepted. We do not agree, however, with the findings in (c), (e) and (f).
It is true that if a dividing fence is also to be used as a child-resistant barrier, in whole or in part, the fence must be both compliant with the Swimming Pool Act and regulations and be a sufficient dividing fence within the meaning of the Dividing Fences Act. However, if two possible types of fence can satisfy the requirements of both Acts, we do not accept that the provisions of the Swimming Pools Act mean that the choice of the type of materials used to construct that part of the dividing fence which is also the swimming pool fence falls solely on the owner of the land on which the swimming pool is situated. 
There is no inconsistency between the two Acts in these circumstances except to the extent that the cost of that part of the dividing fence to be used as a swimming pool fence is to be borne solely by the owner of the land on which the swimming pool is situated. This is the effect of ss 32-33 of the Swimming Pools Act we have referred to above. The Tribunal correctly held this to be the effect of that Act. 
It is to be noted that the Swimming Pools Act clearly contemplates that there may be circumstances in which a dividing fence will also be used as a swimming pool fence. In our opinion, where a fence which is to be used as both a dividing fence and a child-resistant barrier or swimming pool fence and can comply with the requirements of both Acts, then the Tribunal must apply the provisions of s 4 of the Dividing Fences Act in determining the standard of a sufficient dividing fence in those circumstances. The only constraint upon it would be that it could not order the owners of the land on which the swimming pool was not situated to contribute to the cost of that part of the dividing fence which is also to be the pool fence.
Mr Gibbs asserts that the predominant issue is the duty of care that he would owe as the owner of the land on which the swimming pool is situated. We presume he means the duty of care he would owe as occupier of that land, with the responsibility to provide a swimming pool fence which complies with the provisions of the Swimming Pools Act and Regulations, to persons who may enter upon that land. Whilst it is understandable that he would be concerned to ensure he complied with his obligations as occupier, including in providing a compliant pool fence, we do not think that in the circumstances where a swimming pool fence is also to be used as a dividing fence, and the type of fence can be compliant with the Swimming Pools Act and a sufficient dividing fence within the meaning of the Dividing Fences Act, he would be in breach of that duty simply by reason that he could not choose the materials to be used to construct that part of the dividing fence which is also to be used as a swimming pool fence.
There may be circumstances where there is only one type of fence which would satisfy the requirements of the Swimming Pools Act. In such a case, any dividing fence which was also to be used as a swimming pool fence would necessarily need to be compliant with that Act and to the extent that the Dividing Fences Act may provide otherwise (and we do not think it necessarily does), then by reason of s 33 of the Swimming Pools Act, that Act would prevail to the extent of any inconsistency.
We have come to the conclusion that the Tribunal made an error of law in concluding that because the owner of the land on which the swimming pool is situated is required to pay for that part of the dividing fence used also as a child proof barrier, he can choose the materials used to construct that part of the dividing fence.
In this case, it appears that a 1.8 metre Colorbond fence used as a dividing fence for the 18 metres where the fence is to serve both purposes and complies with the Swimming Pools Act. The question then becomes whether that means that it must be the type of fence used for the whole of the dividing fence, or only that part of it to be also used as a child-resistant barrier.
As we have set out at [80] (c) above, the Tribunal found that if a treated pine fence was to used as a dividing fence in this case, it would need to be modified (we assume only as to the 18 metres where it was also to be a child proof barrier) in order to also comply with the Swimming Pools Act. The Tribunal did not give any reasons for this conclusion. 
Part of the evidence the Drapers put before the Tribunal in Exhibit C(1)(b) was a document described as "Annexure T-"Swimming Pool Safety Barrier Guide & Options to Australian Standard AS 1926.1 - 2007 & BCA". The Tribunal again referred to this evidence at [41] of its reasons noting the requirement of a Non Climbable Zone (NCZ) being incorporated into a safety barrier all around a swimming pool perimeter. A NCZ must be a 900 mm vertical continuous section on the safety barrier or fence, free of projections and indentations greater than 10 mm, that can be used as a finger or foothold, enabling a child to climb up or down the barrier or fence. 
The Tribunal referred to 5 options set out in the Guide if a three rail 1.8 metre paling fence is sought to be used as a pool safety barrier. Those options include "Option A" which is described as the "easiest option" with the rails of a paling fence being on the non-pool side of the fence.
We have reviewed that Guide. In this case, it is not apparent to us why a 1.8 metre treated pine paling fence with the rails on the Drapers side, if it was constructed so as to otherwise satisfy the requirements of AS 1926.1 with respect to the NCZ, would require modification. We have concluded that the Tribunal erred in concluding otherwise.
As such, we have concluded that because of the errors in respect of grounds 1 and ground 2 identified above which were important in its decision that the whole of the dividing fence should be a Colorbond fence, the Tribunal erred in so finding. As we discuss below, this does not mean, however, that the dividing fence should necessarily be a treated pine paling fence as submitted by the Drapers.
We have referred above to the new evidence that the Drapers seek to rely on in the appeal, being evidence that Mr Gibbs had commenced to build a Colorbond fence adjacent to the existing dividing fence along the 18 metre length of the area for which the dividing fence would also be used as a child-resistant safety barrier. In order to rely on the fresh evidence, we must be satisfied that the there is a significant possibility that a different, more favourable result would have been achieved if the evidence was before the Tribunal. If we are so satisfied, then if the evidence was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing, it is open to conclude that the Drapers may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice within the meaning of cl 12 of sch 4 of CATA so that leave to appeal may be granted: see the discussion of the relevant principles and authorities in Collins v Urban at [72]-[75]. 
The fresh evidence was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing before the Tribunal. The Drapers submitted it on 20 June. It related to work being undertaken by Mr Gibbs to construct a swimming pool fence adjacent to the dividing fence between the Draper Property and the Gibbs Property and a result of a Pool Safety Order served on him by Sutherland Shire Council dated 22 May 2014. The hearing of the matter was on 6 May 2014.
It is apparent from the response provided by Mr Gibbs on 8 July 2014, that he has undertaken the work of constructing a 1.8 metre high Colorbond fence adjacent to the existing dividing fence along a length of 20 metres. The extra two metres from the 18 metres required for the swimming pool fence is explained as being a 1 metre overlap to the 90 degree adjoining pool fence on Mr Gibbs property. As such, Mr Gibbs has constructed a child-resistant safety barrier on his property along the whole length of the 18 metres of the boundary (but not on the boundary) between the two properties that was the subject of consideration by the Tribunal. 
As we have set out above, the fact that the 18 metres of the proposed dividing fence was to be also used as a child-resistant safety barrier, was an important part of the Tribunal's reasoning. That fact no longer exists as Mr Gibbs has constructed a fence apparently compliant with the Swimming Pools Act on his property so as to comply with the Council's order. If that had been done at the time of the hearing, there is a significant possibility that the Drapers would have obtained a different, more favourable result in the Tribunal. Accordingly, we conclude that leave ought to be granted for the Drapers to rely on this evidence on the appeal.
It seems to us that the construction by Mr Gibbs on his property of the Colorbond fence as a swimming pool fence so as to comply with the Council's order removes a substantial factual basis on which the Tribunal's decision is based. It may be that the Tribunal would have concluded that having regard to that fence construction adjacent to the boundary, and the matters it is required to consider pursuant to s 4 of the Dividing Fences Act, a dividing fence constructed of treated pine palings for the whole (or part) of the length of the common boundary was of a standard to be a sufficient dividing fence.
It is also possible that the Tribunal may have concluded that because of that construction, the whole of the dividing fence should be Colorbond with either the Colorbond fence recently constructed by Mr Gibbs being moved to the boundary (at his expense) or remaining where it is and connected to the remainder of the fence to be constructed. 
There may be other possible conclusions that the Tribunal would have reached had it known of the construction of the pool fence recently constructed by Mr Gibbs. 
In the circumstances, we do not think the decision of the Tribunal should stand.
We have come to the conclusion that, having regard to the errors identified above, and the fresh evidence of the construction of the fence adjacent to the boundary by Mr Gibbs so as to comply with the Council's order, the appeal should be allowed.
We have concluded that the appropriate orders are that the appeal should be allowed and that matter should be remitted to the Tribunal, constituted by a member other than that who heard and determined the original application, for the Tribunal to exercise afresh it's powers under the Dividing Fences Act to determine what fence is required to be a sufficient dividing fence. 
Subject to the matters identified above, the Tribunal must take into account all of the relevant matters under s 4 of the Dividing Fences Act. A relevant factor may be that Mr Gibbs has constructed a child-resistant barrier on his property adjacent to the existing dividing fence. By saying that, we do not mean to limit the exercise of the Tribunal's decision making process having regard to the requirements of s 4 of the Dividing Fences Act.
The Drapers cannot, however, be required to contribute to the cost of that part of the dividing fence that is to be used by Mr Gibbs as a child-resistant barrier for his swimming pool nor the relocation to the boundary of the fence recently constructed by Mr Gibbs to comply with the Council's Pool Safety Order (if Mr Gibbs choses to do so). Save for this, the Tribunal must make its determination according to law.
The Drapers have sought an order that Mr Gibbs pay their costs of the hearing and of the appeal if they were successful. The main basis was that they had been put to time, anxiety and expense in defending Mr Gibbs' application. They say they have incurred significant legal expense in engaging a solicitor to advise and appear for them. In his document headed " Re Mr & Mrs Drapers Significant New Evidence" lodged with the tribunal on 11 July 2014, Mr Draper says:
Section 23 of the Dividing Fences Act provides that the Tribunal may award costs against either party. Section 60(1) of the CATA provides that each party in proceedings before the Tribunal is to pay the party's own costs. Section 60(2) provides that the Tribunal may award costs only if it is satisfied that there are special circumstances warranting the award of costs. The matters to be considered in determining whether there are special circumstances are set out in s 60(3). They include whether a party has conducted the proceedings in a manner that unnecessarily disadvantaged the other or has prolonged the hearing, the relative strengths of the claims by the parties and the nature and complexity of the case.
This matter was originally commenced in the Local Land Board established under the Crown Lands Act. Clause 7 of Division 3 of Schedule 1 the CATA therefore applies to these proceedings. The proceedings were part heard in the Local Land Board at the time of the establishment of the Tribunal. In such cases, because the Tribunal in determining the part-heard matter is exercising the functions that the relevant existing tribunal (in this case the Local Land Board) had immediately before its abolition, and the provisions of the relevant Act (here the Dividing Fences Act as it was prior to 1 January 2014), statutory rule or other law that would have applied to or in respect of the proceedings had this Act and the relevant amending Acts not been enacted continue to apply, the provisions of s 60 of the CATA have no role to play in respect of the hearing: see Rainbird v Ghahyazi  [2014] NSWCATCD 92 at  [36]. 
However, Appeal proceedings are in a different category to first instance proceedings. The effect of the decision of an appeal panel of the Tribunal in the case of NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Diab  [2014] NSWCATAP 8 is that appeal proceedings are not governed by the provisions of clause 7 of schedule 1 of the CAT. That means that the relevant law applicable to these appeal proceedings is, in so far as costs are concerned, contained in S23 of the Dividing Fences Act and S60 of the CATA as opposed to a consideration of S23 alone (which governs the position of the proceedings at first instance).
In so far as the appeal is concerned the Drapers have been successful and therefore their claim to costs of the appeal require consideration.
The matter was not without complexity and has involved a consideration of the interaction of the Dividing Fences Act and the Swimming Pools Act. Although the amounts at stake are not large, the Drapers were entitled to seek legal advice having regard to the complexity of the issues. 
Costs are awarded to compensate the successful party, not to punish the unsuccessful party. We have come to the conclusion that the Drapers are entitled to an order for their costs. However, we think that such an order should be limited in amount. There is no evidence before us as to the exact amount of legal costs that the Drapers have incurred. There is reference to "in excess of $10,000" and " exceed $12,000". These amounts seem high and are disproportionate to the amount at stake. In the circumstances we are of the opinion that the appropriate order is to award costs in the amount which the parties agree or which are assessed but in any event not to exceed $2000.
The basis for the decision that costs of the appeal should be the subject of the order referred to is that in the view of the Appeal Panel these appeal proceedings demonstrate special circumstances warranting an award of costs by reason of the nature and complexity of the appeal proceedings. Accordingly the provisions of S60(2) and S60(3) (d) of the CATA are engaged.
Accordingly, there will an order that Mr Gibbs pays the Drapers costs of the hearing of the appeal in the terms above described.
No orders for costs is made in respect of the first hearing. That is a matter which the parties may if they wish agitate before the reconstituted Tribunal when the proceedings are reheard.
Accordingly we make the following orders: (1) Pursuant to s 50(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 the requirement for an oral hearing of the appeal be dispensed with and the matter be heard on the papers. (2) Leave to appeal on grounds 3 and 5 refused. (3) Appeal allowed. (4) Set aside the orders of the Tribunal made 23 May 2014. (5) Remit the matter to the Tribunal constituted by a member other than the member who made the original decision, to be determined in accordance with these reasons and otherwise according to law. (6) The Drapers are not to be ordered to contribute to any costs for the relocation of the Colorbond pool fence (should Mr Gibbs decide to relocate it or it is necessary to do so) built by Mr Gibbs in compliance with the Pool Safety Order issued to him by Sutherland Shire Council on 22nd May 2014. (7) Mr Gibbs is to pay the Drapers' costs of the appeal in the amount which the parties agree or which are assessed and in any event not to exceed $2000.
############# I'm default separator ##########52
Retail lease - application for appointment of specialist retail valuer -decision that parties had already agreed on current marketrent - costs at firstinstance and on appeal
This decision deals with the costs of proceedings, both at first instance and on appeal, in which the Applicant, a lessee under a lease governed by the Retail Leases Act 1994
The decision under appeal ('the Tribunal's decision') was given in the Retail Leases Division of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal ('the Tribunal') on 26 November 2013. It is reported as City Convenience Leasing Pty Ltd v Boo [2013] NSWADT 268. 
In this decision, the Tribunal, pursuant to a motion filed by the Respondent lessors, dismissed an Application for Original Decision ('the Application') that the Applicant lessee, City Convenience Leasing Pty Ltd, had filed. The order sought in the Application was that the Tribunal should appoint a specialist retail valuer pursuant to section 19(1)(b) of the RL Act. 
The Tribunal reserved costs, but gave directions for the filing of submissions on this matter, indicating that it would be 'dealt with by the Tribunal on the papers'.
On 6 December 2013, the Respondent lessors, who are Akau Boo, Vinh Quang Tran and Kim Chau Tran, filed an application for costs, with supporting submissions.
On 9 December 2013, the Applicant filed a notice of appeal against the Tribunal's decision. On 30 December 2013, it filed submissions responding to the Respondents' application for costs.
On 1 January 2014, the Tribunal was abolished and its functions were taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales ('NCAT'). The appeal proceedings thereupon became 'unheard proceedings' as defined in clause 6(1) of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
On 20 January 2014, the Appeal Panel, constituted by Principal Member Chesterman, heard and dismissed two applications by the Applicant, filed on 19 December 2013 and 16 January 2014. The nature of the interlocutory relief sought in them is outlined below. The Panel reserved the question of costs and gave directions for the filing of submissions before the hearing of the appeal itself.
This hearing took place an Appeal Panel of NCAT on 17 March 2014. As the hearing at first instance, Mr Soltan appeared as agent for the Appellant and Mr Ireland of counsel for the Respondents.
At the end of the hearing, the Panel reserved its decision. It indicated that this decision would include directions as to how the matter of costs at first instance and on appeal would be determined.
In its decision delivered on 7 April 2014 (City Convenience Leasing Pty Ltd v Boo [2014] NSWCATAP 12 - 'the appeal decision'), the Appeal Panel dismissed the appeal. It also set out a timetable for the filing of submissions on the question of costs, adding that this question would be determined 'on the papers', pursuant to section 76 of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 ('the ADT Act') unless the Appeal Panel decided that a hearing was required.
On 2 May 2014, the Respondents filed an application, with supporting submissions, for the costs of the Tribunal hearing on 4 November 2013, the interlocutory hearing on 20 January 2014 and the appeal hearing on 17 March 2014. This document incorporated the arguments advanced in their submissions to the Tribunal dated 6 December 2013 and included details of the amounts of legal costs incurred by the Respondents.
On 2 June 2014, the Applicant filed submissions in response. These included a copy of its submissions to the Tribunal dated 30 December 2013.
Since the matter in issue in this decision is the costs of proceedings that were initiated in the Tribunal, the Appeal Panel may be constituted by a member of NCAT who was formerly a Deputy President of the Tribunal, sitting alone: see Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 ('the ADT Act'), section 24A(1)(a) and (2)(a).
The Panel's decision is that for the reasons set out below the Appellant should pay the Respondents' costs of the proceedings at first instance and on appeal, as assessed or agreed on a party/party basis, as from 18 September 2013.
The somewhat unusual facts of this case were outlined in the Tribunal's decision at [2 - 14] and in the appeal decision at [11 - 33]. What follows is an abbreviated account that will suffice for present purposes.
On 24 August 2006, the Respondents granted to the Applicant a lease ('the Lease') relating to convenience store premises ('the Premises') on the ground floor of 19-21 Hunter Street, Sydney. The initial term of the Lease was seven years commencing on 18 August 2006 and expiring on 17 August 2013. It contained an option to renew for a further term of seven years. It is common ground that the Lease was a retail shop lease governed by the RL Act.
The Lease fixed an initial rent of $285,000 per year exclusive of GST, payable in monthly instalments of $23,750 plus GST. It also provided for rent review to take the form of a 5% annual increase on '18/08/2007 and each anniversary of that date - other than 18/08/2012'. With respect to 18/08/2012, it stated that the method of rent review was to be 'current market rent'. It further provided that if the option to renew were exercised, the rent during the first year of the renewed term would be the amount of rent payable in the final year of the initial period of lease increased by 5%.
The Lease also contained a definition of 'current market rent' and a specified procedure for determining the amount of this rent. This procedure was not, however, implemented at any stage.
During the year ending on 17 August 2012, the sixth anniversary of the commencement of the Lease, accounts prepared by the Respondents' managing agents showed that the monthly rent being charged to the Applicant was $30,311.68 plus GST. During September and October 2012, the Applicant was in arrears. In consequence, an agreement for the payment of rent and arrears by the Applicant ('the Payment Plan Agreement' or 'the Agreement') was concluded between the managing agents for the parties. 
The Agreement included a statement that the monthly rent due from the Applicant was $31,827.27 plus GST. This represented a 5% increase on the previous figure of $30,311.68 plus GST. It also contained a tabulated summary of monthly payments to be made by the Applicant, ranging from $40,000 (in October 2012) to $63,200.45 (in February 2013).
On 15 April 2013, the Applicant's managing agent sent to the Respondents a notice stating that the Applicant 'irrevocably exercises' the option to renew the Lease. By this time, the Applicant had paid off all the earlier arrears. 
The Applicant did not, however, execute the option lease document subsequently sent to its solicitors by the Respondents' solicitors. This document provided that the monthly rent (exclusive of GST) during the first year of the renewed lease should be a figure calculated by increasing $31,827.27 by 5%.
The Application instituting the proceedings in the Tribunal was filed on 16 August 2013, one day before the date of expiry of the initial term of the Lease.
As already stated, this Application was for the appointment, pursuant to section 19(1)(b) of the RL Act, of a specialist retail valuer to determine the 'current market rent' under the Lease. 
The primary question to be determined by the Tribunal was whether the Respondents could validly object to such an appointment on the grounds that (a) the Payment Plan Agreement incorporated an agreement between the parties as to the amount of the 'current market rent' and (b) the procedure for appointment of a valuer established by section 19(1)(b) was for this reason not available to either of them.
The principal argument advanced by the Applicant in opposition to the Respondents' objection was to the following effect. Even if the Agreement concluded between the parties' managing agents was binding on the parties (which was denied at times), the monthly rent stipulated in it had not been agreed upon as the current market rent. The Agreement made no mention of current market rent and there was no evidence from the managing agents suggesting that this matter had been raised in their negotiations. It followed that the amount of such rent, which would be payable during the final year of the initial term of the Lease and would constitute the starting-point for fixing the amounts of rent payable during the seven-year period of the renewed term, had still to be determined. In the absence of agreement on this matter, or on the identity of a specialist retail valuer who would be engaged to carry out this task, the Tribunal was obliged under section 19(1)(b) to hear and determine the Applicant's application for the appointment of a valuer.
The Tribunal rejected this argument. It held that in the Agreement, the parties had agreed not only that the 'actual amount of rent' to be paid during the final year of the initial term of the Lease was $31,827.27 per month plus GST, but also that this was 'effectively' the 'agreed current market rent'. 
In reaching this conclusion, the Tribunal relied in part on three separate lines of reasoning. It described the conclusion as (i) 'part of the inferred intention in the agreement'; (ii) a term that would be 'appropriate to be implied in the payment plan agreement'; and (iii) arising from, or confirmed by, a 'supplementary agreement' between the parties.
The Tribunal then set out four additional rulings, responding in each of them to arguments that Mr Soltan had advanced. These rulings were as follows.
First, the Applicant's managing agent had both actual and ostensible authority from the Applicant to enter into an agreement concerning market rent.
Secondly, such an agreement was not contrary to the provisions of section 19(1) of the RL Act, which by virtue of section 7 overrode any contrary stipulation in the Lease. Equally, it did not 'negate the Applicant's right' to apply for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer to determine the current market rent. The reason for this was that section 19(1)(b) expressly contemplated that the parties might agree 'as to what the actual amount of that rent is to be'.
Thirdly, the Agreement was binding on the parties even though it was their intention to have its terms restated in a form which would be fuller and/or more precise.
Fourthly, it was irrelevant that the parties did not implement at any stage the procedure stipulated in the Lease for determining the current market rent.
As an additional ground for dismissing the Application, the Tribunal accepted an argument of the Respondents based on the principles of estoppel. It held that the Applicant was estopped from disputing that there was an agreement of $31,827.27 per month as both the rate of rent for the 2012-2013 lease year and the relevant current market rent. 
The Tribunal rejected two further propositions advanced by the Respondents. The first was that section 19 of the RL Act did not apply at all to the retrospective determination of rent that had been paid under a lease, but only to the prospective determination of rent yet to be paid. The second was that this section could not apply to the circumstances of the case because the Applicant had not complied with the time periods for the determination of rent for any future option lease set out in section 32.
The Tribunal then held that for the foregoing reasons it should uphold the Respondents' objection to the Application and dismiss the Applicant's claim for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer.
At this hearing on 20 January 2014, the Appeal Panel, constituted by Principal Member Chesterman, heard two applications by the Applicant for interlocutory relief. The orders sought were: (i) a stay of the Tribunal's directions relating to the costs of the hearing before it; (ii) a declaration that 'the rent payable by the Applicant after 18 August 2012 is the rent payable by the Applicant to 17 August 2012 pending determination of this appeal'; (iii) an order restraining the Respondents from taking steps to bring about the removal of a 'proposed caveat' to be lodged by the Applicant on the title to the Premises; and (iv) 'any other order protecting the Applicant's interest of the option under [the Lease] as well as rent overpaid to the Registered Proprietor from the pending determination of market rent as at 18 August 2012'. The Respondents opposed the making of all these orders.
The Panel declined to make the first order sought, staying the Tribunal's directions regarding costs. But it observed that since the Appeal Panel was a constituent part of the Tribunal, the statement in those directions that the matter of costs would be 'dealt with by the Tribunal on the papers' left it open for the Panel to determine the costs at first instance (as it is doing in the present decision).
With regard to the three remaining order sought in the applications, the Panel held that while the appeal by the Applicant was not without merit, the Applicant, on which the onus lay, had failed to adduce the evidence required to establish that the 'balance of convenience' favoured the granting relief such as was envisaged in them. It pointed out that the declaration sought in the first of these orders would leave the Applicant in substantial arrears of rent if the appeal failed and that no security for the payment of these arrears was being offered. It observed also that there was no evidence to show that any sale of the Premises which the proposed caveat sought to prevent would necessarily undermine the ability of the Applicant, if it succeeded in the appeal, to recover any rent overpaid. It added that the Respondent's freedom to deal with the Premises would be substantially impaired if it was ordered not to take any steps to challenge any such caveat.
In its substantive decision, the Appeal Panel upheld the Tribunal's decision, but on grounds that differed in part from those favoured by the Tribunal.
After a lengthy discussion, the Panel indicated that it was inclined to agree with the Tribunal's decision that the express terms of the Payment Plan Agreement manifested a shared intention of the parties that the rent stipulated in it was to be regarded as the current market rent. But it added the following important qualification at [116]:-
Earlier (at [111]), it had made the following observation in support of the view that it had formed on this question:-
The Appeal Panel rejected a submission by Mr Soltan that the Tribunal erred in relying on the concept of 'inferred intention' in ruling that the rent stipulated in the Agreement was intended to be recognised as the current market rent.
On the other hand, Mr Soltan's challenge to the Tribunal's finding that a term of this nature would be 'appropriate to be implied' in the Agreement was upheld by the Panel. It agreed with him that two of the established criteria for determining whether an implied term existed in a contract had not been satisfied. These were that the term must be 'necessary to give business efficacy' to the contract and that it must not contradict an express term of the contract. The Panel pointed out that the provisions of the Lease stipulating how the current market rent should be determined (see [19] above) were, on the face of it at least, in conflict with the suggested implied term.
As indicated earlier, the Tribunal's decision included a ruling that a 'supplementary agreement' had arisen between the parties and that its effect was to introduce, or confirm the existence of, a term that the rent stipulated in the Agreement was intended to be recognised as the current market rent. 
The Appeal Panel rejected Mr Soltan's arguments contesting this ruling. It added the following observations at [145 - 146]:-
Mr Soltan's submission 'relating to the rules of natural justice' was that at the Tribunal hearing the Applicant had not been put on notice that the Tribunal might rely on the concepts of 'inferred intention', 'implied term' or 'supplementary agreement'. The Appeal Panel held that in view of the importance that it attached to the third of these concepts, it was important to ascertain whether the Applicant had indeed been (a) notified that this concept might be given consideration by the Tribunal's and (b) given an opportunity to address it. Having perused the parties' submissions to the Tribunal and the transcript of the Tribunal hearing, it held that these conditions had been satisfied.
The Appeal Panel did not agree with the Tribunal's ruling that the Applicant was estopped from denying that the rent stated in the Payment Plan Agreement was the current market rent. It held (at [149]) that the prerequisites for an estoppel in the circumstances of this case would include findings as to the 'subjective knowledge and intentions of the officers and agents of the parties' and that the evidence in this regard failed to establish any relevant 'assumption', 'inducement' or acquiescence' on their part.
At the commencement of the appeal hearing, the Appeal Panel rejected an application made by Mr Soltan for leave to adduce further evidence. In its decision, it also rejected two contentions by him that have not yet been mentioned. They were as follows: (a) by virtue of section 7 of the RL Act, section 19(1) overrode any 'agreement or arrangement' between the parties to a lease as to how current market rent should be determined; and (b) the Payment Plan Agreement was not binding on the parties. It did not regard either of these contentions as having significant merit. 
As already stated, the Respondents' application was for their costs of the Tribunal hearing on 4 November 2013, the interlocutory hearing on 20 January 2014 and the appeal hearing on 17 March 2014. They correctly based this application on section 88(1A) of the ADT Act (this being applicable by virtue of section 77C of the RL Act). This subsection follows the pronouncement in section 88(1) that 'Each party to proceedings before the Tribunal is to bear the party's own costs in the proceedings, except as provided by this section'. 
The Respondents relied on the following provisions within subsection (1A):-
The Respondents' only submission based on paragraph (a)(ii) of section 88(1A) was that the Applicant's filing of an application for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer constituted a 'failure... to comply with the relevant provision of the enactment on which they had brought the Application'. 
This submission must be rejected. It cannot be said that when a party has filed an application seeking the exercise of the Tribunal's jurisdiction under the RL Act, but an objection to that jurisdiction has been upheld, the party has in any meaningful sense 'failed to comply with' this Act.
With regard to paragraph (c) of section 88(1A), the Respondents submitted as follows: (i) they had been successful before the Tribunal on all but one of four separate 'propounded reasons' that they had advanced for upholding their objection; (ii) the Applicant's application to the Appeal Panel for four orders by way of interlocutory relief had been wholly unsuccessful; and (iii) in the appeal decision, the Applicant's 'wide range of arguments' based on contract law, estoppel, the rules of natural justice and the provisions of the RL Act, together with its application to adduce further evidence, had been rejected, with the result that the appeal failed.
In making these submissions, the Respondents referred by implication to paragraph (d). They maintained that the proceedings were both substantial and complex.
On behalf of the Applicant, Mr Soltan put forward a number of opposing arguments. So far as the Tribunal hearing and the substantive appeal proceedings are concerned, it is not necessary to give details of these arguments, because the broad proposition underlying them is correct. 
Even though a number of Mr Soltan's subsidiary submissions at both hearings were not of significant merit, his principal submissions called for careful examination and could not be easily put to one side. This is readily apparent from the foregoing outline of the Tribunal's decision and the appeal decision.
The primary question raised in these decisions was whether the Payment Plan Agreement, either considered in isolation or in conjunction with a 'supplementary agreement', manifested an intention by the parties that the rent stipulated in the Agreement should be the current market rent. This question was a difficult one. 
Moreover, while both the Tribunal and the Appeal Panel reached the conclusion that such an intention was present, they did so by distinctly different routes. The Panel disagreed with the Tribunal on two questions of significance - whether there was an implied term incorporating this intention and whether an estoppel arose - and expressed only tentative approval of the Tribunal's ruling that this intention was discernible in the express terms of the Agreement.
For these reasons, it cannot be said that in the substantive proceedings, either at first instance or on appeal, there was 'a substantial disparity between the relative strengths of the parties' claims'. This criterion for determining whether the operation of paragraph (c) of section 88(1A) is 'triggered' is stated in Jonamill Pty Ltd v Alramon Pty Ltd (No 2) [2010] NSWADTAP 3 at  [47 - 49] and has been applied in later cases. Like the present decision, Jonamill was an Appeal Panel decision relating to proceedings instituted under the RL Act.
On the other hand, the Applicant's applications for interlocutory relief were not soundly based, for the following reasons. 
In so far as the first of these applications sought a direction from the Appeal Panel that the Panel, not the Tribunal, should determine the costs at first instance, it invoked an unnecessarily costly procedure. The Applicant could instead have written to the Registrar requesting that the Panel make such a direction. The Panel, after obtaining submissions from the Respondents, would then have decided this matter in chambers.
With regard to the remaining three orders sought in the two applications, the failure of the Applicant, which bore the onus of proof, to adduce any evidence to establish the matters outlined above at [40] provides a sufficient basis for ruling that its case was a weak one.
For these reasons, the Respondents have shown that so far as concerns the Applicant's applications heard and determined by the Appeal Panel on 20 January 2014, there was 'a substantial disparity between the relative strengths of the parties' claims'. Pursuant to paragraph (c) of section 88(1A) of the ADT Act, this provides grounds for ruling that it would be 'fair' to order that the Applicant pay the Respondents' costs of this hearing.
The Respondents' submissions. The final matter on which the Respondents based their application for costs was the Applicant's rejection of an offer made by them to settle the dispute between the parties. They advanced this argument in their submissions, filed on 6 December 2013, relating to the costs of the Tribunal hearing, and they repeated it in their submissions relating to the costs of both hearings.
It is well recognised (see e.g. Charalambous v Yeung (No 2) (RLD)  [2014] NSWCATAP 1 at  [21) that the unreasonable rejection by an unsuccessful party of an offer of settlement on terms more favourable than the order or orders ultimately made in the proceedings may be treated as a relevant consideration under paragraph (e) of section 88(1A) and may provide the basis for a costs order.
The offer by the Respondents was made by their solicitors, Coleman Greig, in an email message sent to Mr Soltan at 3.27 p.m. on Tuesday 17 September 2013. The message commenced by rejecting on the Respondents' behalf an offer that Mr Soltan had conveyed in an email sent at 2.03 p.m. on the previous Friday (13 September). It continued as follows:-
The Applicant did not respond to this offer before it lapsed at 4.00 p.m. on 18 September 2013. 
In their submissions relating to the costs of both hearings, the Respondents argued that since a directions hearing at the Tribunal had been scheduled for the next day, 19 September 2013, the 'amount to be achieved by the Application' was at that stage 'under active consideration' by the Applicant. It followed, they maintained, that the Applicant's rejection of the offer was unreasonable and that 'an appropriate costs order' should therefore be made in the Respondents' favour.
The Applicant's submissions. The Applicant's response to this argument was contained in its submissions on the costs at first instance. It did not mention the matter in its later submissions dealing with the costs of both hearings. It maintained that for two reasons the Respondents' offer made on 17 September 2013 was 'not a Calderbank v Calderbank offer' and could not be invoked as a basis for a costs order in their favour.
The first reason advanced was that the time given to the Applicant to consider the offer was only 24 hours. This period was insufficient to allow the Applicant's 'professional agent' to advise it as to the legal consequences of the offer or to obtain relevant legal advice. 
Secondly, the Applicant argued that the offer did not 'deal with the Application that was before the Tribunal', with 'the rent [that] may have been overpaid or underpaid for the year ending 17 August 2013', or with 'the costs of the application'. Instead, it dealt only with the option lease. 
A further matter raised in the Applicant's submissions was the Respondents' rejection of an offer of settlement made to them on a date (13 February 2014) between the delivery of the Tribunal's decision and the commencement of the appeal hearing. The terms of the offer were that if the Respondents consented to the appointment of a specialist retail valuer, the Applicant would not require the payment of any rent overpaid to them between 18 August 2012 and 23 January 2014 (on which date they had sold the Premises to a third party). 
Authorities cited. In support of their submissions, the Respondents relied on a Court of Appeal case, Jones v Bradley (No 2)  [2003] NSWCA 258 and on the Appeal Panel's decision in Charalambous v Yeung (No 2).
In Jones v Bradley (No 2), a Calderbank offer on which the Court of Appeal held that a costs order in the appellant's favour should be based was made by fax at 2.13 p.m. on Friday 26 October 2001, with acceptance required by 10.15 a.m. on Monday 29 October. The respondent argued that since this offer was only open 'for less than one-half a working day', she had not been given a reasonable time to consider it. The offer had been made, however, in response to an offer of settlement that the respondent had conveyed on the preceding Tuesday, 23 October. It was significant also that the hearing of the dispute between the parties had already commenced in the District Court.
The Court of Appeal held (at 16]) that '[i]n light of the ultimate verdict on the appeal and the history of the matter leading to the appellant's offer of 26 October, including the counter offer made by the respondent on 23 October which demonstrated that she had the verdict under active consideration, it was unreasonable for the respondent to reject the appellant's Calderbank offer of 26 October'.
In Charalambous v Yeung (No 2), the Appeal Panel based a costs order, covering the costs of both the hearing at first instance in the Retail Leases Division and the appeal hearing, on the appellant's rejection of a Calderbank offer made five days before the commencement of the earlier hearing. The offer was made on a Thursday, with acceptance required by 4 p.m. on the following Monday. The Appeal Panel observed at [50] that it could 'reasonably be inferred that at the time when it had to be considered the Appellant and his legal representatives had completed their preparation for the hearing or were focusing their attention wholly or predominantly on the task of preparation'. Relying on the principles stated in Jones v Bradley (No 2), it dismissed (at [56]) the appellant's contention that 'the time allowed for consideration of this offer was so short as to preclude a ruling that rejection of the offer was unreasonable'. 
The Applicant relied on the following passage in the judgment of Beazley JA in Brymount Pty Ltd t/a Watson Toyota (CAN 003 200 459) v Cummins & Anor, Young Shire Council v Cummins & Anor  [2005] NSWCA 69 at  [14]:-
Discussion and conclusions. A costs order under section 88(1A) may only be based on the rejection of an offer of compromise if the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the terms offered constitute a genuine compromise of the dispute between the parties; (b) they are more favourable to the offeree than the outcome of the proceedings; and (c) having regard to all the circumstances, the offeree's rejection of the offer was unreasonable.
The Respondents' offer of 17 September 2013 had the effect of halving the amount of the rent increase that took effect on the exercise of the option. It envisaged an increase of 2.5% instead of the contractual rate of 5%. According to their case, which the Tribunal and the Appeal Panel ultimately upheld, the monthly rent payable during the final year of the initial term, constituting also the current market rent, was $31,827.27 plus GST, which amounts to $35,010. When the contractual rate of 5% is applied to this figure, the amount of the increase during the first year of the renewed lease is $1750.50. 
Acceptance of the Respondents' offer would have reduced this amount by $875.25 per month, which translates to $10,503 per annum. This reduction would have affected the amount payable as rent not only during the first year of the renewed term, but also during the each of the remaining six years. This follows from the fact that under the Lease an annual increase of 5% takes place throughout the renewed term. Accordingly, the offer conveyed by the Respondents, when compared to the amount of rent being sought by them during the seven years of the renewed term, involved a long-term benefit to the Applicant amounting to more than $70,000.
This analysis shows that the first two of the three conditions outlined above were satisfied. The Respondents' offer made on 17 September 2013 was both (a) a genuine compromise of the dispute and (b) distinctly more favourable to the Applicant than the outcome of the proceedings.
As to the third condition - that having regard to all the circumstances, the rejection was unreasonable - the chief matter to be investigated is whether sufficient time was afforded to the Applicant to give due consideration to the offer.
The Applicant maintained that the period of time allowed - little more than 24 hours - was insufficient. But the evidence that it tendered to the Tribunal included a copy, annexed to a witness statement signed by Mr Soltan, of the offer of settlement (referred to above at [68]) that the Applicant had made on 13 September 2013. The email message in which this offer was conveyed by Mr Soltan to Greig Coleman included the following passages:-
The focus of the first of these extracts from Mr Soltan's email is on the specific question of estoppel. But the two extracts, considered in conjunction with the fact that in this email the Applicant made its own offer of settlement, indicate that at the time when it received the Respondents' counter-offer it was giving 'active consideration' to the case that it would advance in the forthcoming proceedings. A further factor supporting this conclusion is that the matter was set down for directions two days later. It follows that the period of time afforded to the Applicant to consider the offer was not unduly short.
For these reasons, the Applicant's rejection of the Respondents' offer of compromise was, in all the circumstances, unreasonable.
The offer of settlement made by the Applicant on 13 February 2014 does not assist its case because its terms were less favourable to the Respondents than the outcome of the proceedings.
The Respondents have accordingly succeeded in showing that the Applicant's rejection of their offer of compromise provides a proper basis for a finding that it would be 'fair', within the meaning of section 88(1A) of the ADT Act, to order the Applicant to pay their costs as from 17 September 2013, the date when the offer was conveyed.
The Appeal Panel's conclusion is that such an order should be made. The costs should be paid on a party/party basis, in an amount to be agreed or assessed. Given the scale of the costs involved, the Panel will not determine a fixed sum, even though it is empowered to do this in appropriate circumstances. 
############# I'm default separator ##########53
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -denial of opportunity to be heard.
This is an appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal made on 26 February 2014 as follows:
A notice of appeal was filed by the appellant on 12 March 2014. The grounds for appeal were stated as follows:
The appeal panel has interpreted the ground of appeal to be based both on a question of law which is an appeal as of right: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s80(2)(b) and an appeal on any other grounds for which leave is required: NCAT Act, s80(2)(b). Appeals from the Consumer and Commercial Division on any other grounds can only be granted in the limited circumstances set out in Schedule 4,clause12 in the NCAT Act. Clause 12 provides:
The appellant filed and served a number of submissions in accordance with the directions of the Tribunal. The final pre hearing submissions were lodged with the Tribunal on 14th August 2014. Those submissions made it clear that the appellant's submissions were concerned with the finding of the Tribunal that the tenancy was terminated in accordance with s92(1) of the RTA. The submissions did not address the Tribunals finding that the tenancy was also terminated in accordance with s87 of the RTA by reason of failure to pay rent. The appellant stated in her submissions that her father has indicated that he will help pay all of the rent owing if this means that the tenancy can be saved and the appellant has indicated that if the appeal is upheld with respect to the termination pursuant to s92(1) the appellant, with her father's support, would seek to avail herself of the provisions of s89(3) of the RTA. That section relevantly provides that a termination of the residential tenancy agreement solely on the ground of non-payment of rent ceases to have effect if the tenant pays all the rent owing and the tenant has not vacated the premises. 
The appellant's submission was accompanied by a Work Cover NSW Medical Certificate in respect to her husband's condition as well as a doctor's report concerning the husband's medical condition.
Further submissions were filed by the appellant date 2 April 2014. These submissions also state that the appellant was unable to attend the hearing on 26 February 2014 "due to overwhelming family commitments". 
The appellant then filed further documents with the Tribunal on 12 May 2014. These included a statement by the appellant. The statement refers to the two incidents which formed the basis of the decision of the Tribunal at first instance. The first incident occurred on 17 September 2013 and with respect to that occasion the appellant's statement acknowledges that she became very angry. She acknowledges she made a number of statements to an officer of the respondent. With respect to the incident on 2 December 2013 the appellant acknowledged that she "lost control momentarily and made a hand gesture and said that I would come over and rip Mrs Walter's throat out." She acknowledges that she became "somewhat aggressive".
The appellant lodged her final submission on 14 August 2014. These submissions deal with each of the two incidents and submit that the appellant's conduct was not of a kind attracting s92(1) of the RTA. In particular, the appellant submits that her conduct was not persistent, that she did not intimidate the respondent's officers, nor harass them or threaten them. The appellant pointed out that s92 of the RTA gives the Tribunal a discretion as to whether to terminate. 
The appellant also submitted that the Tribunal at first instance should have had regard to s152 of the RTA. That section states that in determining whether to terminate a social housing tenancy agreement on the ground of a breach by the tenant, the Tribunal: 
any serious adverse effects the tenancy has had on neighbouring residents or other persons,
whether any breach of the agreement was a serious one, and whether, given the behaviour or likely behaviour of the tenant, a failure to terminate the agreement would subject, or continue to subject, neighbouring residents or any persons or property to unreasonable risk,
The appellant submitted that there was no evidence that she had caused a nuisance to neighbours (being a matter required to be considered under s152(1)(a)), that the breach was not serious (being a matter required to be considered under s152(1)(b)), or that a failure to terminate the agreement would subject neighbouring residents or any persons or property to unreasonable risk (also a matter under s152 (1)(b). The appellant also stated she had expressed remorse for her actions and had on two occasions attempted to apologise to officers of the respondent.
The appellant made submissions concerning her and her family's personal circumstances and the difficulties she and her family would face in finding new accommodation in the event the tenancy was terminated.
As the respondent had filed its written submissions later than the time required by the Tribunal's directions, the appellant was given leave to supplement her oral submissions by filing and serving a further submission on or before 17th September 2014. Those final submissions have been received and considered by the appeal panel.
The appellant's oral submissions at the appeal hearing essentially repeated the written submissions. The representative of the appellant argued that the appellant's conduct was not serious enough or persistent enough to constitute conduct described in s92 of the RTA. He submitted the decision below was not fair and equitable because had the appellant been able to be present at the hearing she would have been able to respond to the allegations made against her with the likelihood of producing a different decision.
The appellant's representative argued that the two bases for the decision below (namely rent arrears and the s92 conduct) "fed off each other" producing a harsher result than would have occurred had the two been considered separately. He argued that if the s92 conduct had been considered alone the likely result (other than dismissal) would have been a specific performance order rather than termination. 
The respondent submitted that there is no issue that the appellant did not receive the notice of hearing and that her explanation for not attending the hearing (namely overwhelming family commitments) is an insufficient reason to warrant a finding by the appeal panel that it would be in the interests of justice to permit argument on the merits of an otherwise legally correct decision of the Tribunal.
The respondent submitted that there had been no denial of procedural fairness. The appellant knew of the hearing and chose not to attend.
The respondent submitted that there was no legal error in the Tribunal's application of s92. In particular the question of whether the incidents were "serious" was a matter for the judgment of the Tribunal Member at first instance.
The respondent submitted that it is apparent from the decision at first instance that the Tribunal Member did take into account the discretionary factors under s152 of the RTA.
The Tribunal is bound to accord procedural fairness to the parties, which includes giving each a reasonable opportunity to be heard (see s36 and in particular s36(5)(c) of the NCAT Act). Here the appellant had notice of the hearing and elected not to attend due to family commitments. There was no explanation provided by the appellant as to why she did not comply with the Tribunals directions made on 16th December for the appellant's evidence to be filed and served by 4th January 2014, nor an explanation as to why the appellant did not seek an adjournment of the hearing on 26th February 2014 following receipt of the Tribunal's Notice of Hearing dated 20th December 2013. Nor is there any explanation as to why the appellant could not have made arrangements for others to attend to her family commitments, or alternatively, for someone to seek to represent her at the hearing.
In the view of the appeal panel the appellant had a reasonable opportunity to be heard and there was no breach of the obligation to accord her procedural fairness. Accordingly this ground of the appeal is dismissed.
The requirements of cl12(1) of schedule 4 of the NCAT Act have been set out earlier in these reasons. These requirements have been the subject of a decision by an appeal panel of the Tribunal in the case of Collins v Urban [2014] NSWATAP17. In paragraph 71 of that decision the appeal panel said that the concept of a substantial miscarriage of justice refers to a failure in the way a matter was conducted or decided, which deprived the appellant of a chance that was fairly open of achieving a better outcome than occurred. This means in the context of clause 12 that one of the circumstances referred to in cl12(1)(a),(b) or (c) has been established.
Based on the evidence found by the Tribunal at first instance the Tribunal had a proper basis for the findings and orders which were made. It is in the opinion of the appeal panel that the decision at first instance was fair and equitable.
Whether the Tribunal at first instance was required to have regard to the matters described in s152 of the RTA is not an issue which the appeal panel finds it necessary to decide because in those proceedings it is clear to the appeal panel that the Tribunal at the first instance did in fact consider such matters. The decision refers to the history of the tenancy, prior noncompliance by the appellant of Tribunal orders, and a finding that the incidents relied upon by the respondent were serious. These are matters identified in s152. 
The appellant argues that she was not able provide evidence or dispute the allegations made against her and therefore the decision below was not fair and equitable. This ground is in substance the same ground earlier dealt with concerning denial of an opportunity to be heard. The appeal panel has decided that the appellant was not denied procedural fairness and was given a reasonable opportunity to be heard. Accordingly this ground is dismissed.
The appellant also submits that evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing at first instance. However, the evidence to which the appellant refers is her own evidence concerning her conduct and the only basis upon which that evidence could be categorised as evidence not reasonably available at the first instance hearing is that she was not present at the hearing. It is the opinion of the appeal panel that the appellant's absence at the first instance hearing is not sufficiently explained to enable the appeal panel to conclude that the appellant, and therefore her evidence, was not reasonably available at that hearing. The appeal panel's conclusion, as earlier expressed, is that the appellant was afforded a reasonable opportunity to be heard, which included a reasonable opportunity to provide evidence and to cross examine the witnesses for the applicant below.
The appellant submits that the "undertaking by the appellants to pay all outstanding arrears if the tenancy continues" constitutes significant new evidence. It is not explained why this undertaking was not reasonably available at or prior to the first instance hearing. Accordingly this submission is rejected.
The decision of the appeal panel is that the appeal should be dismissed. It is necessary to vary order 3 made on 26th February. Having regard to the appellant's family circumstances she should be given a reasonable time to provide possession. The appeal panel is of the view that three weeks is reasonable. Orders will be made accordingly.
############# I'm default separator ##########54
APPEAL - Civils and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - application for leaveto appeal - whether error of fact - leave granted.
This is an appeal against a decision made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal on 22 May 2014. The Tribunal's orders and a statement of reasons for the decision were published on that date. The Tribunal ordered the appellant (the respondent below) to pay the respondent in these proceedings (the applicant below) the sum of $1499.26 on or before 19 June 2014. The Tribunal had power to make such an order under s 8(1)(a) of the Consumer Claims Act 1998
The appeal is an internal appeal pursuant to s 80(2)(b) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act). It was lodged on 10 June 2014, which is within the 28 day time limit specified in Rule 25(4)(c) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (the Rules). 
The appellant has not appealed on a question of law and no question of law is raised by the Notice of Appeal and other material filed by the appellant. In accordance with s 80(2)(b) of the Act, the appellant therefore requires leave to Appeal. 
Cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act provides that leave to appeal against a decision made in the Tribunal's Consumer and Commercial Division may only be granted if the Appeal Panel is satisfied the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because: (a) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was not fair and equitable, or (b) the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was against the weight of evidence, or (c) significant new evidence has arisen (being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with).
For the reasons set out below, the Appeal Panel has decided: (1) Leave to appeal is granted;
On 27 February 2014, the respondent lodged an application in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal seeking an order for payment of $2960.00. 
The appellant and the respondent were parties to a Managing Agency Agreement for the management of the respondent's investment property and a Sales Inspection Report and Auction Sales Agreement (Auction Agreement) for sale by auction of the same property. 
In the application to the Tribunal, the respondent indicated that the auction was to take place on 5 October 2013. However, on 12 September 2013 she asked the appellant asking to cancel the auction. The respondent stated that although the auction was cancelled, she was still charged expenses including the auctioneer's fee. The invoiced amount of these expenses ($2405.00) was debited from rental payments collected by the appellant. 
The amount charged in respect of marketing expenses and the auctioneer's fee comprised the first aspect of the respondent's claim. The balance of the claim involved sums charged to the respondent under the Managing Agency Agreement ($94.00 in respect of a lawn mowing and a new toilet seat and $148.50 in respect of dishwasher repairs) and $151.76, which represents water usage charges paid by the respondent's tenant under the residential tenancy agreement. The respondent claimed that the appellant did not credit this sum to her. 
The matter was first listed before the Tribunal on 7 April 2014. An attempt to conciliate the dispute was unsuccessful and the Tribunal made directions for the filing and serving of documents to be relied on at the hearing. The directions made it clear that for the purpose of compliance with the directions, documents included witness statements, statutory declarations and affidavits.
The matter came before the Tribunal for hearing on 22 May 2014. The appellant did not appear at the hearing. The Tribunal found that the appellant had been notified of the hearing and determined that the justice of the case required that the matter proceed in that party's absence. The Tribunal decided that in making a decision in relation to the application, it would take into account documents filed by the appellant. These documents consist of 70 bound pages, with a covering letter and an index, which were received by the Tribunal on 5 May 2014. No evidence in the form of witness statements was included in the documents.
The Tribunal also took into account the respondent's oral evidence and the documents she had filed with the Tribunal on 16 April 2014. These documents include the details of the sum sought by the respondent, which included costs of $1000.00 
The Tribunal found that the Auction Agreement was signed on 24 August 2013 and that before the agreement was signed the respondent received a text message confirming that the cost of advertising and auctioneer's fees would be $1800.00 including GST. The Tribunal found that the clause of the Auction Agreement dealing with marketing and other charges provided for an amount of $1800.00, although it did not expressly include auctioneer's fees. The Tribunal noted that this figure was under a heading "Estimated Amount" and the figure of $1800.00 next to the heading "Total" had been ruled through on the appellant's copy of the agreement and the alteration had not been initialled. The Tribunal recorded the respondent as giving evidence that the figure recorded next to the "Total" heading had not been ruled through on her copy of the agreement. 
The Tribunal found that there was a fixed sum agreement in respect of marketing and other charges, including auctioneer's fees, in the sum of $1800.00. The Tribunal did not accept that the figure of $1800.00 was an estimate only. Nor did the Tribunal accept that the respondent remained liable for all amounts invoiced and other charges on the basis that they were fees incurred on the respondent's behalf. 
In relation to the amounts charged to the respondent for lawn mowing, a new toilet seat and repairs, the Tribunal found that these sums were deducted from the trust ledger without the respondent's authority. The Tribunal further found that the appellant received $151.70 from the respondent's tenant in respect of water usage charges and the appellant was liable to account to the respondent for that sum. 
The Tribunal found that the respondent was not entitled to costs, which were claimed in the documents the respondent submitted to the Tribunal. The Tribunal also found that the respondent was not entitled to the sum of $250.00 in respect of rubbish removal costs. The issue was not referred to in the application, but was raised in the documents filed by the respondent and was apparently part of the sum originally claimed.
The Tribunal calculated the sum payable by the appellant to the respondent as follows:
The Appeal Panel notes that the appellant did not apply to have the Tribunal's decision set aside under Reg 9 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation 2013, which allows for a decision of the Tribunal to be set aside if it was made in the absence of a party and the party's absence meant that their case could not be adequately put to the Tribunal. Further, no explanation for the appellant's failure to attend the hearing was provided in connection with this appeal. 
The Notice of Appeal was lodged on 10 June 2014. The appellant sought a stay of the Tribunal's order. The application for a stay was refused on 24 June 2014 by Principal Member M Harrowell. Directions made on that date are referred to below. The outcome sought by the appellant is the remittal of the matter to the Tribunal for rehearing or the determination of the appeal on the papers. 
In support of the application for leave to appeal, the appellant claims that the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable, that it was against the weight of the evidence and that new evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing. The appellant did not object to the appeal being dealt with on the papers. 
Attached to the Notice of Appeal are a number of documents, including:
The appellant disputes all three aspects of the Tribunal's decision; that is, the decision in relation to the marketing and auctioneer's expenses, the decision in relation to the tenancy related expenses and the water usage charges.
The appellant claims that the Tribunal misunderstood or misinterpreted evidence. In particular, the appellant claims that:
Under this heading, the appellant states that the evidence the appellant presented to the Tribunal were the tax invoices from the dishwasher repairer and the Sydney Water, the tenant's ledger report and the landlord's trust account ledger. The appellant states that the respondent's evidence at the hearing included "consent instructions" to pay the amount of $1500.00 from rent collected by the appellant, the "Advertising Statement of Account" (that is, the appellant's invoice to the respondent in the sum of $2405.00) and the trust account ledger which shows a credit of $151.76 on 31 January 2014. 
The appellant specifically refers to the dishwasher repair charge of $148.50 and claims that this charge was incurred in the respondent's best interest and under her instruction to obtain a quotation and that it is unreasonable for the appellant to have to cover the charge. 
Under this heading, the appellant refers to the blank Auction Agreement template, which according to the the appellant demonstrates that the ruled lines are part of the template and were in existence prior to the execution of the Auction Agreement.
The Reply to Appeal was filed on 1 July 2014. In it, the respondent indicates her support for the Tribunal orders, stating:
The respondent stated that she did not object to the appeal being dealt with on the papers.
On 25 June 2014, the Appeal Panel, constituted by Principal Member Harrowell, refused the appellant's application for a stay of the Tribunal's orders and made directions for the preparation of the appeal. 
The directions required the appellant to file and serve all evidence in support of the application for leave to appeal and the appeal, together with a copy of the audio recording of the hearing, a transcript of relevant evidence and submissions, by 14 July 2014. The respondent was directed to file and serve evidence and submissions in response to the appellant's material by 28 July 2014 and the appellant was directed to file and serve any further material in reply by 4 August 2014. 
The only material filed by the appellant in response to these directions was a copy of the same material that had been filed in the proceedings before the Tribunal. The respondent did not file any material other than the Reply to Appeal. 
Section 50 of the Act governs when an oral hearing is required in the Tribunal. It relevantly provides:
The Appeal Panel is therefore not required to conduct an oral hearing in relation to an application for leave to appeal and may rely upon submissions and documents that are before the Tribunal. The Appeal Panel may also decide to dispense with a hearing and determine an appeal on the papers.
The Tribunal, whether at first instance or sitting as the Appeal Panel, must under s 38(5)(c) of the Act "take such measures as are reasonably practicable ... to ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings". 
It will generally only be appropriate for the Tribunal, including the Appeal Panel, to proceed to hear and determine matters of this type on the papers if it is satisfied that the parties have had a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered. In this matter, the parties consented to the appeal being dealt with on the papers. They have also had the opportunity to put their cases before the Appeal Panel in the Notice of Appeal and Reply to Appeal as well as through submissions and documents that they were directed to file. The Appeal Panel is satisfied that its obligation under s 38(5)(c) of the Act has been met.
In these circumstances, it is appropriate for the Appeal Panel to determine the application for leave to appeal without a hearing and to dispense with a hearing in respect of the appeal itself. Determining the appeal on the papers is also appropriate in a matter such as this one because it saves the parties the cost of attending a hearing and neither the subject matter nor the amount in dispute justify the incurring of any additional delay or expense.
In an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, under cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act the Appeal Panel may only exercise its discretion to grant leave to appeal if the Panel is satisfied that:
An appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because of any of the circumstances referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) where there is a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved for the appellant had the relevant circumstance in para (a) or (b) not occurred or if the fresh evidence under para (c) had been before the Tribunal at first instance. (See Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [68] to [76].)
In relation to the marketing and auctioneer's expenses, the appellant essentially claims that the Tribunal's decision is not fair and equitable because the respondent was aware that the $1800.00 quote was only an estimate of marketing expenses and that it did not include the auctioneer's fees. The appellant also asserts that the respondent knew that the auctioneer's fees were payable whether or not the auction occurred. In relation to this issue, the respondent denies the assertion in the Notice of Appeal that there was any conversation in respect of these issues. 
As noted above, the appellant did not attend the hearing and has provided no explanation for not having done so. The documents the appellant filed with the Tribunal did not include witness statements, statutory declarations, affidavits or other evidence concerning discussions with the respondent about the marketing and auctioneer's fees. In such circumstances, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the Tribunal was entitled to take the documents submitted by the parties at face value and to place weight on the respondent's oral evidence at the hearing. 
The appellant had the opportunity to put evidence of pre-contractual conversations with the respondent to the Tribunal, in the form of witness statements and/or in oral evidence at the hearing. It did not do so. There is no unfairness or lack of equity in the Tribunal not taking into account evidence that was not before it. 
The Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the finding that there was a fixed price contract was not fair and equitable. The Tribunal was entitled to reach the conclusion that the contract was for a fixed price based on the evidence before it. This is so regardless of the failure to list the auctioneer's fee as one of the expenses under the marketing and other charges section of the Auction Agreement.
Furthermore, the Tribunal was entitled to find that the auctioneer's fees should be deducted from the expenses claimed by the appellant from the respondent. This is because the appellant did not put any evidence before the Tribunal suggesting that the respondent knew, at the time she signed the Auction Agreement, that the auctioneer's fees would be payable whether or not the auction went ahead. 
In relation to the tenancy related expenses, the appellant claims that it is not fair and equitable that the respondent should be responsible for these expenses, as the appellant acted promptly in undertaking repairs and doing so was in the best interests of the respondent and her tenant. 
Regardless of whether the appellant acted promptly and whether or not it was in the best interests of the respondent and/or the tenant, clause 17 the Managing Agency Agreement between the parties, which was in the bundle of documents the appellant filed with the Tribunal and with the Appeal Panel, states that the agent must contact the owner at all times in respect of expenditure for maintenance or repair of the premises. 
Although the appellant claims that the dishwasher repair was done subsequent to the respondent's instructions to obtain a quotation, the appellant did not provide any evidence to the Tribunal confirming that there had been such instructions. Even if the respondent did instruct the appellant to obtain a quotation, the appellant did not provide evidence demonstrating the respondent had authorised the expenditure of $148.50 for dishwasher repairs. Nor did the appellant provide any evidence to the Tribunal demonstrating that the respondent authorised the expenditure of $94.00 in respect of a lawn mowing and a new toilet seat 
In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the Tribunal's decision that the appellant rather than the respondent should bear these costs is not fair and equitable. This is particularly so given the unexplained failure of the appellant to appear at the Tribunal hearing and the failure of the respondent to file any witness statements prior to the Tribunal hearing. 
In relation to the water usage charges paid by the respondent's tenant, the appellant claims that the decision in relation to these charges is not fair and equitable because, contrary to the Tribunal's finding, the relevant sum was in fact credited to the respondent. The Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable for this reason. However, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the Tribunal's decision is against the weight of the evidence in respect of this issue. This is dealt with under the next heading below. 
The Appeal Panel finds that cl 12(1)(a) is not satisfied. 
The appellant raises three issues under this heading: 
The first of these issues has been dealt in relation to whether the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable and does not need to be further discussed. 
In relation to the second issue, it is true that the respondent's text message was before the Tribunal. However, so was the appellant's agent's text message quoting $1800.00 for expenses including auctioneer's fee, the Auction Agreement itself and the invoice showing the auctioneer's fee as $500.00. When those documents are taken into account and the failure of the appellant to put any evidence before the Tribunal demonstrating that the respondent knew that the auctioneer's fee was payable whether or not the auction took place is considered, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the Tribunal's decision was against the weight of the evidence.
In relation to the third issue, the trust ledger report at page 70 of the documents the appellant provided to the Tribunal shows that $151.76 was credited to the respondent on 31 January 2014 in respect of water usage paid by the tenant. In the Reply to Appeal, the respondent stated that she agreed with the Tribunal's finding in respect of the water usage charges. She did not comment on the evidence of the trust ledger, even though it was specifically raised in the Notice of Appeal. The Appeal Panel is satisfied that the respondent had a reasonable opportunity to provide evidence and make submissions on this point. 
Based on the appellant's submissions and the trust ledger, the Appeal Panel finds that the sum of $151.76 was credited to the respondent on 31 January 2014. The Appeal finds that the Tribunal's decision in relation to this issue was against the weight of the evidence and that cl 12(1)(b) is satisfied in respect of the water usage charges only. 
In respect of this issue, the appellants refer to the blank Auction Agreement template attached to the Notice of Appeal. This document has two black lines next to "Total" under the Marketing and Other Expenses heading. This is said to be evidence that the total of $1800.00 was not altered subsequent to the execution of the Auction Agreement. 
The Appeal Panel accepts that the total of $1800.00 was not altered as suggested by the respondent's evidence at the hearing. However, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the Tribunal's decision that the parties had a fixed price agreement for payment of $1800.00 for marketing and auctioneer's expenses is dependent on whether the amount of $1800.00 was crossed out on a version of the signed Auction Agreement. Given that the appellant's case is that $1800.00 was in fact not deleted after the respondent signed the Auction Agreement, the blank template document does not assist the appellant's case. The Appeal Panel is not satisfied that cl 12(1)(c) is satisfied. 
The Appeal Panel concludes that the only basis on the appellant has established of a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved is under cl 12(1)(b) and only in respect of the Tribunal's decision that water usage charges collected from the respondent's tenant were not credited to the respondent. The Appeal Panel finds that the appellant has satisfied the requirements of cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act in respect of this issue only.
Granting of leave to appeal under s 80(2) of the Act is discretionary. This means that even if an appellant from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division has satisfied the requirements of cl 12(1), the Appeal Panel must still consider whether it should exercise its discretion to grant leave to appeal. 
The Appeal Panel comprehensively considered the principles that govern the granting of leave to appeal under s 80(2)(b) in Collins v Urban [supra]. One of the bases for exercising the discretion is where there is "an error that is plain and readily apparent which is central to the Tribunal's decision and not merely peripheral, so that it would be unjust to allow the finding to stand" [at 84]. 
As noted above, the appeal is in respect of three distinct issues: the marketing and auctioneer's expenses, the tenancy-related expenses and the crediting of water usage charges. In respect of the water usage charges, the finding that the charges had not been credited to the respondent was central to that aspect of the Tribunal's decision. The Appeal Panel is satisfied that this was an error, as the trust ledger report included in the documents the appellant provided to the Tribunal clearly shows that $151.76 was credited to the respondent in respect of water usage charges on 31 January 2014. 
The Appeal Panel does not consider the Tribunal's finding in relation to the water usage charges was arrived at unreasonably, particularly given that the appellant was not present at the hearing to draw the Tribunal's attention to the trust ledger. However, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that allowing a finding to stand that that the appellant is liable to pay the respondent a sum that has already been credited to her would be unjust. 
The Appeal Panel is therefore satisfied that the discretion to grant leave to appeal should be exercised in favour of the appellant and that the appeal should be allowed in respect of the water usage charges only. The effect of the orders set out below is that the sum the appellant has credited to the respondent in respect of water usage charges ($151.76) is deducted from the sum the Tribunal ordered the appellant to pay. 
The Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (5) Leave to appeal is granted.
############# I'm default separator ##########55
Termination of residential tenancy agreement on ground of supply ofprohibited drug from the premises - whether Tribunal genuinelyexerciseddiscretion subsequently held to be available to it - whether it failed to takerelevant considerations into account
This is an appeal against a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal ('NCAT'). This decision ('the Tribunal's decision') was given on 22 January 2014. The principal order made in it was that a residential tenancy agreement between the Appellant tenant, Barbara Stiff, and the Respondent landlord, the New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation, was terminated immediately, with possession of the premises in Malabar to which the agreement applied ('the premises') to be given to the landlord on the date of termination. This order was, however, suspended until 22 April 2014.
It was not disputed that the tenancy agreement, which was dated 18 September 1980, was governed by the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The tenant first sought to challenge the Tribunal's decision by appealing to the District Court. But on 19 May 2014 she was granted leave to discontinue this appeal, and on 22 May 2014 she instituted an internal appeal to the Appeal Panel of NCAT.
The principal orders sought in her Notice of Appeal were that the appeal be allowed and the Tribunal's decision quashed or, in the alternative, that the matter be remitted to the Consumer and Commercial Division for rehearing. 
She also sought an interim order staying the Tribunal's decision until the determination of the appeal. But at a hearing on 2 June 2014, the Appeal Panel, constituted by Principal Member Harrowell, refused to make such an order, on the basis that the landlord had agreed not to enforce the order for possession or apply for a warrant for possession until the appeal was finally determined or dismissed.
The appeal was heard before us on 2 September 2014. Mr Robison of counsel appeared for the tenant and Mr Gardiner of counsel for the landlord. At the commencement of the hearing, we granted leave to the tenant, which the landlord did not oppose, for the Notice of Appeal to be filed out of time.
Our decision on the appeal is that it should be dismissed, for the reasons that follow.
Sections 91 and 152 of the Act are significant in these proceedings. They state:-
Prior to 1 January 2014, the Tribunal referred to in these provisions was the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal ('the CTTT'). From that date onwards, it has been NCAT.
Under section 136 of the Act, the term 'social housing tenancy agreement' is defined to mean 'a residential tenancy agreement where the landlord is a social housing provider'. The definition of 'social housing provider' expressly includes the landlord in this case, the New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation.
The landlord's application for an order terminating the tenancy agreement was based on section 91(1)(a) of the Act. The evidence on which the application was based was to the following effect.
On 27 June 2013, the police, in the course of executing a search warrant at the premises let by the landlord to the tenant, found 67.86 grams of cannabis, small resealable bags, scales and $40,021.00 in cash. The tenant was charged and convicted, on her plea of guilty, of the following offences: supply of prohibited drug, allegedly cannabis, and deal with property suspected to be proceeds of crime, being $395.00 cash. She received a suspended sentence of four months imprisonment for the former offence and was given a three-month bond with respect to the latter. A further charge of possessing a prohibited drug was laid against her, but subsequently withdrawn.
The tenant admitted that she had been charged, convicted and sentenced as alleged by the landlord. She also did not dispute that she had supplied drugs from the premises. 
The Tribunal accordingly found (at paragraph [14] of its reasons) that the tenant had 'supplied a prohibited drug from the residential premises within the meaning of the Drug Misuse and Trafficking Act 1985'.
The landlord submitted that the Tribunal was bound by the decision of the District Court in New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation v Cain  [2013] NSWDC 68, even though it was currently the subject of an appeal. In this decision, which was delivered on 23 May 2013, the Court ruled that the word 'may', where it appeared near the commencement of subsection (1) of this section, was to be construed as imposing an obligation on the CTTT to make a termination order if it was satisfied of the matters set out in paragraph (a) of this subsection. There was no room, the Court held, for the exercise of any discretion by this tribunal. The Court effectively treated the word 'may', in its application to cases brought under paragraph (a), as meaning 'must'.
It followed, the landlord argued, that if the Tribunal was satisfied that the tenant had acted in the manner outlined in paragraph (a) it was obliged to terminate the tenancy agreement. It had no option to do otherwise.
As outlined in paragraph [10] of the Tribunal's reasons, the tenant argued that the Tribunal should interpret the word 'may' in section 91(1) as conferring a discretion, not imposing a duty. Accordingly, in any case in which it was satisfied as to the matters set out in paragraph (a), it should not regard itself as bound to make a termination order, but should proceed to determine, in the exercise of this discretion, whether or not such an order should be made.
The tenant also tendered evidence in support of a submission by her that, if such a discretion did exist, it should be exercised in her favour. This evidence, which the Tribunal summarised in paragraphs [9], [11] and [12], was to the following effect:-
Paragraphs [17] to [19] of the Tribunal's reasons are of particular significance in this appeal and should be quoted in full:-
The Tribunal then held in paragraph [20] that three months should be allowed for possession and that the orders terminating the tenancy agreement and providing for an occupation fee should be suspended.
On 26 February 2014, about one month after the Tribunal's decision, the Court of Appeal delivered its decision (Cain v New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation  [2014] NSWCA 28) in the appeal brought by the tenant in that case against the decision of the District Court. It allowed the appeal and restored the CTTT's decision in her favour.
For present purposes, it is sufficient at this stage to quote the following passages from paragraphs [25], [26] and [29] in the judgment of Basten JA (with which Gleeson and Leeming JJA agreed):-
In the Notice of Appeal, the tenant stated she was appealing only on questions of law. At the commencement of the hearing, her counsel, Mr Robison, made a request for leave to amend the Notice by adding an application for leave to extend the appeal to the merits. Counsel for the landlord, Mr Gardiner, opposed this grant of leave, pointing out that one of a series of directions given to the parties on 29 May 2014 was that the tenant should filed and serve any amended Notice of Appeal by 20 June 2014. We indicated that we would be reluctant to grant the leave sought. Mr Robison then stated that since the principal relief sought by his client was an order quashing the Tribunal's decision, there was 'probably no need' to press his request.
The Notice of Appeal listed six errors of law that the tenant claimed to have been made by the Tribunal. In an Amended Reply, the landlord conceded Grounds 1 and 5 because of the Court of Appeal's decision in Cain. These were to the effect that the Tribunal erred in applying the District Court's decision in this case and in construing section 91(1)(a) of the Act as not conferring a discretionary power on it. The tenant did not press Ground 2, which was that the Tribunal erred in holding that judgments of the District Court were binding upon it.
Grounds 3, 4 and 6 were as follows:-
At the hearing, the grounds mainly relied on were Grounds 3 and 6. 
With respect to the latter Ground, Mr Robison maintained that, as appeared from paragraph [17] of its reasons, the Tribunal believed itself to be bound by the District Court decision in Cain and therefore to have no discretion under section 91(1)(b) of the Act to decide that the tenancy agreement should not be terminated. It followed, he argued, that the indications given by the Tribunal (in paragraphs [18] and [19]) as to how any such hypothetical discretion should be exercised did not amount to a 'real' exercise of the discretion that actually existed, and that this failure to exercise the discretion was an error of law.
In support of this argument, Mr Robison cited a short passage from the judgment of Mason P in Weal v Bathurst City Council & Anor  [2000] NSWCA 88. This case was concerned with the exercise of discretionary powers conferred by planning legislation on local councils, and with the particular question of whether the respondent council had taken sufficient account of a particular factor (that of noise) when determining a development application. In his judgment at [13], Mason P stated the following proposition (which also appears in a similar form in Giles JA's judgment at [80]):-
According to Mr Robison, the Tribunal did not understand the 'significance' for its decision of the matters which in its opinion would have been relevant if a discretion existed under section 91(1)(b). This was because it proceeded on the basis that there was no such discretion. The result was that it failed to 'consider' these matters in the legally relevant sense. 
It followed, he claimed, that since consideration of some of these matters was required under section 152 of the Act (which counsel on both sides treated as applicable to the circumstances of the case following the Court of Appeal's decision in Cain), the ultimate consequence was that the Tribunal had failed to have regard to mandatory considerations.
As authority for the proposition that such a failure amounted to an error of law, as asserted in Ground 3, Mr Robison cited the second sentence (quoted above) of paragraph [29] of Basten JA's judgment in Cain. He also cited the following statement in Aronson, Dyer and Groves, Judicial Review of Administrative Action (3rd edn) at p 260: 'Discarding a mandatory consideration as irrelevant would, of course, amount to an error of law.'
Mr Robison referred in his oral submissions to dicta in two other cases: Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v Maitan  (1988) 78 ALR 419 at 429 and Australian Conservation Foundation v Forestry Commission  (1988) 78 ALR 685 at 693. He agreed, however, that these dicta were not of immediate relevance to the circumstances of this case.
Ground 4 in the Notice of Appeal was described by Mr Robison as a 'subsidiary' ground. He submitted that when proper consideration was given to all the factors operating in the tenant's favour (these being the matters summarised in paragraphs [9], [11] and [12] of the Tribunal's decision), it became clear that the discretion conferred by section 91(1)(b) of the Act should have been exercised in her favour.
The main proposition advanced in Mr Gardiner's outline of submissions was that contrary to the assertion in Ground 6 of the Notice of Appeal the Tribunal 'ultimately exercised the discretion to terminate under section 91 despite the [District Court's] decision in Cain'. Although the relevant passage in its decision (paragraphs [18] and [19]) was relatively short, it was sufficient, because it had already outlined the factors relevant to exercise of the discretion. It had done this chiefly in paragraphs [9] to [12], but also in paragraphs [6] (which described the conviction and sentencing of the tenant) and [7] (where it was noted that the landlord had been invited to address the Tribunal on the matters listed in section 152 of the Act). Accordingly, the Tribunal's conclusions with regard to the exercise of a discretion under section 91(1)(b) were not hypothetical, but followed from a genuine assessment of all the relevant evidence
Mr Gardiner submitted also that it was 'typical' for a court or tribunal to decide a case on a single ground, but to add an alternative ground. When this occurred, he maintained, any appellate court or tribunal would treat both grounds as operative.
With reference to Ground 3 of the appeal, Mr Gardiner argued that the tenant had not identified any legal error in the Tribunal's exercise of the discretion that it took to be possibly available to it. She had not established any of the recognised grounds for appellate intervention in a discretionary decision, such as are listed in a well-known passage in House v R [1936] HCA 40;  55 CLR 499 at 504-505. This passage is as follows:-
Mr Gardiner also emphasised the well-established principle that an appellate court or tribunal should use caution and restraint when deciding whether a decision reached in the exercise of a discretion should be set aside. It was not enough, he said, that the court or tribunal would have been minded to exercise the discretion in a different way.
With regard to Ground 4, his submission was that an error of law was not established simply by showing that a decision was against the weight of the evidence.
We have found this case to be a difficult one to resolve, but we are satisfied after careful consideration of the arguments put before us that the appeal must be dismissed.
A significant factor leading us to this conclusion is that, contrary to a submission by Mr Robison, the Tribunal's decision did not include an explicit ruling that it was bound by the District Court's decision in Cain precluding any exercise of discretion once the matters set out in section 91(1)(a) of the Act. 
Mr Robison relied expressly on paragraph [17] of the Tribunal's reasons when making this submission. But a close reading of this paragraph indicates otherwise. Having referred at the commencement of this paragraph to relevant features of section 91, the Tribunal went no further in the final sentence than to record the following conclusion:- 
In the two preceding paragraphs, the Tribunal noted the parties' conflicting submissions as to whether the District Court's decision in Cain was binding on it. But once again, it left this question unresolved. A significant observation in the former paragraph was that this decision was the subject of an appeal. The clear implication of this was that the reversal of the Court's ruling that no discretion existed was a possibility that should not be ignored.
A further feature of the Tribunal's reasons that supports our view on the matter now being discussed is their two references (in paragraphs [7] and [18]) to section 152 of the Act. The matters listed in subsection (1) of that section, and indeed the whole of the section, would not have been thought relevant if the Tribunal was not taking account of the possibility that a discretion might be available to it under section 91(1)(a).
In our opinion, these various considerations lend significant support to Mr Gardiner's argument that the two statements made by the Tribunal regarding the exercise of any discretion available to it were not merely 'hypothetical' rulings, but constituted a genuine exercise of this discretion. The Tribunal was careful, in our opinion, to base its decision both on the premise that the District Court's ruling in Cain was correct in law and on the alternative premise that it would be reversed in the appeal proceedings that were currently in train.
For these reasons, we conclude that Ground 6 in the Notice of Appeal has not been made out.
Our view regarding Ground 3 is that, contrary to Mr Robison's argument, the Tribunal adequately summarised (chiefly in paragraphs [9], [11] and [12]) the factors supporting the exercise of any available discretion in favour of the tenant and made it clear, in paragraphs [18] and [19], that in reaching the contrary conclusion it had taken due account of these factors. Mr Robison did not point to any specific factor in the tenant's favour that the Tribunal should have referred to (whether by virtue of section 152 or for any other reason), but omitted to mention. We agree with Mr Gardiner that none of the errors listed in House v R was discernible in the Tribunal's reasons. It is not to the point that an exercise of the discretion in the tenant's favour, if supported by an adequate explanation of the reasons for it, would arguably at least be also immune from appellate intervention.
We also agree with Mr Gardiner that Ground 4 does not allege an error of law and must therefore be rejected.
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal must be dismissed.
Mr Gardiner indicated that if the appeal was unsuccessful, the landlord would not seek costs. We therefore order, pursuant to section 60(1) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
############# I'm default separator ##########56
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal -procedure - Guardianship Division hearing - financial managementorder -financial manager - procedural fairness - reasonable opportunity to be heard -whether to grant leave to appeal - Civil andAdministrative Act 2013, s80(2) -consideration of views of persons with disabilities - whether appealabledecision - applicationfor admission of further or fresh evidence.
RP is an elderly man who lives in his own home. His son, QP, and his daughter ST, both live nearby. QP has appealed against a decision of the Guardianship Division of the Tribunal ('the Tribunal') appointing his sister and her husband TT jointly as his father's financial managers. He has not appealed against the Tribunal's decision to appoint ST and TT as his father's guardians. QP wants the Appeal Panel to amend the financial management order so that he can participate in the management of his father's financial affairs. 
In a submission to the Appeal Panel, he stated that he wants to be able to 
The Appeal Panel does not have power to make an order of that kind. Under s 25M of the Guardianship Act 1987
We agree with the Tribunal's view, expressed in BEX (2012) NSWGT 11 at  [34] that although the Guardianship Act refers to a 'suitable person', the Tribunal can appoint more than one suitable person to manage an estate: Interpretation Act 1987 (NSW), s 8(b). The Tribunal has no power to make an order appointing an individual, such as QP, to monitor or supervise the management of a person's estate. If a 'suitable person' is appointed, that person is subject to the direction of the NSW Trustee and Guardian: NSW Trustee and Guardian Act 2009 (NSW), s 66. 
At the hearing, QP amended his appeal by agreeing that the order he is seeking is that he, his sister and her husband jointly manage his father's financial affairs.
QP has the right to appeal on a question of law but must obtain the Appeal Panel's permission or 'leave' to appeal on any other ground: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2014 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 80(2)(b). We have decided that the Tribunal made its decision according to law and there is no other reason why the decision should be changed.
On 16 November 2004, RP signed an Enduring Power of Attorney appointing his son, QP, and his daughter, ST, jointly. ST refused to accept the appointment because she felt she would be unable to work with her brother. 
On 15 November 2013, ST applied to the Tribunal for the appointment of a financial manager and guardian for her father. The Tribunal appointed a separate representative to represent his interests. A week later, RP signed an Enduring Guardianship document appointing his son, QP, as his guardian and a further Enduring Power of Attorney appointing QP as his attorney. Both documents were revoked on 14 January 2014. 
The Tribunal appointed ST and TT jointly as RP's financial managers, subject to the directions and authorities of the NSW Trustee and Guardian. The Tribunal decided not to carry out a review of the enduring power of attorney made by RP on 22 November 2013 which appointed QP as attorney. 
In accordance with s25G of the Guardianship Act, the Tribunal may make a financial management order in respect of a person only if the Tribunal has considered the person's capability to manage his or her own affairs and is satisfied that: (a) the person is not capable of managing those affairs, and (b) there is a need for another person to manage those affairs on the person's behalf, and (c) it is in the person's best interests that the order be made.
The Tribunal was satisfied as to each of those matters and none of the grounds of appeal relate to those findings. In summary, the Tribunal found that RP was incapable of making an appointment under the Enduring Power of Attorney and that there was no existing Enduring Power of Attorney in operation. On this basis, the Tribunal found that there was no 'clear, legally authoritative and satisfactory way for [RP's] financial affairs to be managed now that he is unable to arrange that himself.' In light of the conflict between QP and ST, there was a need for external scrutiny of RP's affairs.
The Tribunal then considered who should be appointed as financial manager. The separate representative suggested that ST and her husband, TT, be appointed jointly. ST and TT agreed. Although QP indicated in his submissions to the Tribunal that he should continue to manage his father's financial affairs, the Tribunal noted in its reasons that QP 'indicated that he no longer wanted to be involved in his father's affairs' and left the hearing prior to its conclusion. According to the Tribunal, it was for that reason that his views about being appointed as financial manager could not be canvassed. In those circumstances the Tribunal did not consider him for appointment to that role. 
The Tribunal found that ST was close to her father and, together with her husband TT, had given him great assistance. As the manager of a hospital, the Tribunal found that TT would have the skills to manage an estate of the size and complexity of RP. The Tribunal was satisfied that neither the financial affairs of ST nor TT were entwined with those of RP.
Taking into account these matters, the Tribunal was satisfied that ST and TT had the advantages of family members as set out in Holt v Protective Commissioner  (1993) 31 NSWLR 227 and were suitable persons to be appointed jointly as financial managers for RP, subject to the supervision of the NSW Trustee and Guardian. 
Rather than setting out the grounds of appeal in the Notice of Appeal, QP provided two written submissions. QP has one ground of appeal that identifies a question of law and several other grounds for which QP seeks leave to appeal.
The only ground of appeal which potentially identifies a question of law is QP's submission that he was 'void of any representation of input' because the separate representative for his father did not interview him prior to the hearing. It would be a breach of the NCAT Act and the common law rules of procedural fairness if the Tribunal did not ensure that QP had 'a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have (his) submissions considered in the proceedings': NCAT Act, s 38(5)(c). 
QP attended the hearing before the Tribunal. He did not say to the Appeal Panel that he had been denied a reasonable opportunity to present his case. The fact that the separate representative for his father did not speak to him and convey his views to the Tribunal did not prevent QP from being heard or having his submissions considered. The Tribunal did not breach s 38(5)(c) or the common law rules of procedural fairness.
QP seeks leave to appeal on the following "other grounds": (1) At the time of the hearing RP was not able to understand the questions that the Tribunal members were asking him nor was he able to respond in a reliable manner. For that reason the Tribunal should not have relied on his views.
The NCAT Act does not provide any guidance as to the considerations that are relevant when determining whether to grant leave. Those principles must be derived from other sources including the objects of the Act and the nature of the appeal. The guiding principle when interpreting the legislation "is to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings": NCAT Act, s 35. 
In K v K (2000) NSWSC 1052, a case which dealt with an appeal from the former Guardianship Tribunal, Young J observed in relation to the granting of leave at [15] that:
The Appeal Panel has recently considered the principles which generally guide the consideration of whether leave to appeal should be granted under s 80(2) of the Act: see Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17. At  [84] the Panel summarised the principles (citations deleted):
In his written submissions QP wrote:
In oral submissions before the Appeal Panel, QP submitted that RP needed to be included in the Tribunal hearing, but that the degree to which the Tribunal relied on his opinion was a concern.
Under s 4 of the Guardianship Act it is the Tribunal's duty to take RP's views into consideration. RP gave evidence as to his views and the Tribunal took that evidence into account. He consistently expressed the view that he was not prepared for his son, QP, to act alone as his financial manager. The Tribunal was satisfied that, while unable to manage his own affairs, RP was able to express this view and that it was a view that he had held consistently. That finding is supported by the account the Tribunal gave of QP's evidence. Other than RP's assertion, there is no basis for finding that this account was not an accurate or reliable account of RP's views. QP has not established that the Tribunal made a factual error, took into account an irrelevant consideration or done anything else which would justify leave being granted. 
In the reasons for decision, the Tribunal explained its understanding of the circumstances in which QP left the hearing and the consequences of his actions:
Although this account suggests that QP left the hearing early, both QP and ST agree that QP stayed until the end, or until very close to the end, of the hearing. QP did not deny that he told the Tribunal as he was leaving that he no longer wanted to be involved in his father's affairs. 
Neither the tape of the Tribunal's proceedings nor the transcript was in evidence. Even if we were to find that the Tribunal was mistaken in its understanding that QP left the hearing before it had concluded, QP told the Appeal Panel that he had mentioned this incident because he wished 'to correct the record'. He also told the Appeal Panel that the statement on the record that QP had left the hearing early 'had no impact on the decision.' These concessions implicitly acknowledge that any misunderstanding by the Tribunal in relation to this incident did not produce an unfair result nor is it in the interests of justice for its finding to be reviewed. 
The Tribunal appointed a separate representative for RP under s 45(4) of the NCAT Act. QP had proposed that a private solicitor represent his father but withdrew that application because the Tribunal had assured him that a separate representative would be appointed. Prior to the hearing, QP complained to the Tribunal that the separate representative had not interviewed him. QP is aggrieved that the Tribunal allowed the separate representative to continue to represent RP and took his opinion into account when QP's complaint had not been considered. 
The Tribunal decided not to address QP's complaint prior to the hearing and set out its reasons for not doing so in the decision:
A complaint that the Tribunal failed to address a grievance about a separate representative at the hearing is not a decision about which QP may appeal. QP has a right to appeal against an 'appealable decision'. The Appeal Panel has internal appeal jurisdiction over "any decision made by the Tribunal in proceedings for a general decision": NCAT Act, s 32(1). The decision not to address a complaint against a separate representative at a hearing of the substantive application is not a decision made in the proceedings. For that reason the Appeal Panel does not grant leave to appeal on this ground.
QP submits that ST and TT put forward erroneous and misleading information and that the Tribunal wrongly considered that information. In particular, QP denied that he had bullied RP, a client of RP or the client's wife. Further allegations were that QP had borrowed money from RP which he had never repaid and that he was moving 'to take over all of Dad's affairs void of Dad's knowledge including the selling of his properties and his vehicles.'
In the reasons for decision the Tribunal refers to evidence from TT that QP had "actively obstructed RP from receiving necessary care and treatment", The Tribunal also notes that TT was 'inclined to be critical of the (financial) information provided by her brother on the basis that independent valuations and verification by the provision of tax returns etc. had not occurred." Despite this evidence, the Tribunal concluded that the information had been collected in good faith and with reasonable diligence and that it was a reasonable summary of QP's financial position. The decision also records that TT expressed that view that QP was not managing his father's affairs prudently, for example that he had been paying for legal advice from multiple solicitors in relation to these and other proceedings. The Tribunal found that QP had not acted "in any untoward or exploitative way towards his father."
QP was present at the Tribunal hearing and had the opportunity to respond to any allegation TT made about his conduct. In addition, the Tribunal made no adverse findings about any of those allegations other than that QP and TT could not work together because of the conflict between them. In those circumstances leave is not granted for this ground of appeal to proceed. 
QP submitted that since the Tribunal hearing his father has changed his mind about having ST and TT as his financial managers. This submission appears to relate to RP being unable to contact ST on several occasions and RP's understanding that he remains able to manage his own affairs.
In referring to subsequent events, the Appeal Panel assumes that QP is applying for the admission of further or fresh evidence. The authorities make it clear that any such evidence must relate to the Tribunal's decision at first instance and must be evidence which was relevant at that time to that decision. In Building Professionals Board v Hans (2008) NSWADTAP 13, the Tribunal stated at [54]:
The Court of Appeal reached the same conclusion in Gianoutsos v Glykis (2006) NSWCCA 137. The Court reviewed the decisions in relation to the admissibility of further or fresh evidence and quoted at [37] the principle set out in CDJ v VAKJ (1998) 197 CLR 172, 201-202. As in that case, this appeal is not a hearing de novo. 
It is the decision at first instance that the Appeal Panel must examine. It is not relevant to an examination of that decision whether the circumstances have changed since that time. The information put forward by QP in support of this ground is not evidence which was relevant to the Tribunal's decision at that time. It is simply information in relation to the assertion that, since the hearing, RP has changed his mind as to how he wishes his affairs to be managed. On this basis, the Tribunal finds that the information should not be admitted on appeal. Leave to appeal on this ground is refused. 
In relation to the question of who should be appointed as RP's financial manager or managers, the Tribunal made no error of law nor has QP put forward any other ground which would justify leave being granted. The appeal is dismissed. 
############# I'm default separator ##########57
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - question oflaw - adequacy of reasons - consideration of all issues- leave to appeal - newevidence - return of rental bond
In 2009, Gary Fordham and Narelle Fordham (the tenants) entered into a residential tenancy agreement with Carly Davies and Lloyd Davies (the landlords) for premises at Cronulla. The tenants paid a rental bond in relation to the premises of $4,800. A dispute arose concerning the bond. On 3 April 2014 Member B Howe of this Tribunal ordered that the sum of $3,260 be paid to the landlords, with the balance to the tenants. He provided written reasons.
The tenants filed a Notice of Appeal asserting grounds of appeal as of right on questions of law, and also seeking leave to appeal, in the following terms: (1) No evidence that substantiates the claim by the landlord. The decision is against the weight of the evidence. (2) Question of law on the decision of the Tribunal member - the member did not consider all of the relevant issues or apply the appropriate regulations.  (3) The reasons were inadequate and constitute a question of law.  (4) The decision was a miscarriage of justice. (5) The decision was not fair and equitable.
Substantial written submissions were filed by both parties, providing further details concerning these grounds. 
The appeal and the application for leave to appeal came before us, and were heard on 19 August 2014. The tenants appeared for themselves. The landlords were represented, with leave, by Mr B Basha, their real estate agent. Before dealing with the grounds, we consider the general principles for granting leave, and also the key statutory provisions concerning rental bonds.
The Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) ('the Act') provides for appeals as of right on a 'question of law': s 80(2)(b) and also permits appeals with leave of the Appeal Panel.
The decision below concerned the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) ('the RT Act') and was made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. It was thus a "Division decision" within the meaning of cl12(1), Schedule 4 of the Act: see the definitions of "the Division" and "Division function" in cl 1 and the provisions of cl 3(1) of Schedule 4. Accordingly we must be satisfied of the matters set out in cl 12 of Schedule 4 to the Act before the discretion to grant leave can be exercised. That clause provides:
These provisions were examined in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [65-79], which also decided that even if the Appeal Panel is so satisfied there is a discretion whether or not to grant leave and at that second stage further principles are to be considered, namely:
Part 8 (ss 157-186) of the RT Act concerns 'Rental Bonds'. By s 157, 'rental bond' is defined as 'an amount of money paid or payable by the tenant or another person as security against any failure by a tenant to comply with the terms of a residential tenancy agreement.'
By s 161 there is to be one rental bond for each residential tenancy agreement. The bonds are deposited with the Director-General, that is to say, the Commissioner for Fair Trading in the Department of Finance and Services: s 162. 
By s 164 a claim for whole or part of the rental bond made by either landlord or tenant without the consent of all the other parties to the residential tenancy agreement requires notice to be given by the Director-General to the other parties. Section 165 of the RT Act provides:
Section 166 provides:
The Tribunal is given the power to make an order 'as to the payment of the amount of the rental bond' under s 175.
The RT Act also makes provision for condition reports in ss 29 and 30 as follows:
The Tribunal allowed three types of claims by the respondents against the bond, namely for: (1) 'Pool service': $554; (2) 'Replace damaged remote': $154; and (3) 'Repairs': $2,552.
The reasons provided by the Tribunal relevantly state:
Ground 2 raises a question of law alone and can be dealt with on that basis without any consideration of leave, therefore it is appropriate to deal with ground 2 before dealing with the other grounds raised in the Notice of Appeal. Ground 2 raises two issues for consideration. 
The Tenants submit that the Landlords' application to this Tribunal was 'out of time'. This is not a topic dealt with by the reasons below. Assuming it was raised as an argument below but not dealt with, there is no substance to the point. The rental bond claim by the tenants was notified to the Landlords by letter dated 23 December 2013. Section 76 of the Interpretation Act 1987 states:
The fourth working day after 23 December 2013 was 31 December. It is common ground that the application was filed with this Tribunal was no later than 7 January 2014 (the Landlords say it was 3 January 2014). That is within the 14 days contemplated by s 164(5) of the RT Act which states '(5) The notice must state that the Director-General will pay the claim unless notified in writing by a party within 14 days that the claim is the subject of proceedings before the Tribunal or a court'. In the circumstances, we need not consider whether a claim made more than 14 days after notification from the Director-General would be ineffective. If this point raises a question of law, it should be dismissed as lacking substance; if it does not raise a question of law leave should be refused as the point equally lacks substance.
Section 165 of the RT Act provides that the documents referred to in s 165(1), by s 165(3), 'must be provided within 7 days of the claim being made'. Failure to comply with this provision, absent a reasonable excuse, amounts to an offence: s 165(5). The Tenants say they submitted that the Landlords did not provide the relevant material until 14 February 2014. The Landlords say they filed the material in accordance with Tribunal directions. It is unnecessary to resolve this issue.
The tenants say they 'submitted to the Member [below] that the landlord is guilty of an offence under s 165,ss4 [sic] of the Act but the member has not dealt with this in his reasons'. Again, assuming such a submission was made, there is no substance in it. The Tribunal has no jurisdiction to find a landlord guilty of an offence against s 165 of the RT Act. It is therefore not an error of law to have failed to deal with the point. Alternatively, as the point is unarguable, leave should not be granted.
The Tenants have provided various sets of written submissions, the contents of which we have considered by the Appeal Panel.
We deal with these grounds in the Notice of Appeal together as each of them (as explained below) requires leave. None of these grounds other than Ground 3 is said to identify a question of law. For the reasons which follow Ground 3 does not raise an error of law. For completeness we note in relation to ground 1, that the complaint is not that there is no probative evidence at all, but rather, for reasons explained at length in submissions, that the evidence which exists for findings seems insufficient or not compelling to the applicant. Of course once there is some evidence for a finding, any error is one of fact not law: see Azzopardi v Tasman UEB Industries Ltd  (1985) 4 NSWLR 139 at 155-156 (see TCL Air Conditioner (Zhongshan) Co Ltd v Castel Electronics Pty Ltd  [2014] FCAFC 83 at  [82]). In Azzopardi, Glass JA with whom Samuels JA concurred, said that none of the following assertions of inadequacy amount to errors of law, namely where a finding:
We deal with the key issues in relation to each of the three categories of claim in relation to the bond. 
It will be recalled that the reasons below dealt with this claim as follows:
There are complaints about the adequacy of the reasons provided by the Tribunal pursuant to s 62 of the Act. By s 62(3) those reasons were required to set out:
It is important to recall what was said by the Court of Appeal in Amaca Pty Ltd v Tullipan [2014] NSWCA 269 at  [14], namely:
We consider the reasons provided on this issue are evidently sufficient to comply with s 62, bearing in mind the warning of the Court of Appeal just referred to. It follows that there is no error of law in relation to the adequacy of reasons. 
The remainder of the issues raised on this topic are not questions of law. We are not prepared to grant leave to appeal. First, it has not been demonstrated on this (or on any other issue in these proceedings), that there was a 'substantial miscarriage of justice', which Collins v Urban characterised at [71] as 'a failure in the way a matter was conducted or decided which deprived the appellant of a chance that was fairly open of achieving a better outcome than occurred.' The parties had a sufficient opportunity to present their cases. Nor was there any other demonstrated defect.
Next, the conclusions of the Tribunal below have not been shown to be 'against the weight of evidence' in the sense used in Collins v Urban at [77] namely "where the evidence in its totality preponderates so strongly against the conclusion found by the tribunal at first instance that it can be said that the conclusion was not one that a reasonable tribunal member could reach". 
Finally, it was not established that 'significant new evidence has arisen (being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with).' Rather, any further evidence (such as that contained in the submissions filed on 7 May 2014) was not shown to be 'new' in this sense. The tenants agreed at the hearing that this material was obtainable, although not obtained, for the original hearing.
Even if we are wrong about this, we would not granted leave because we are not satisfied that the tests of leave at the second, discretionary stage, in Collins v Urban at [84] are satisfied, that is, we are not satisfied in relation to any matter that: (1) There is 'something more than that the primary decision maker was arguably wrong in the conclusion arrived at or that there was a bona fide challenge to an issue of fact'; (2) nor that any of the factors listed in that decision at [84](2)] are here met. 
The tenants make much of the asserted lack of evidence about the state of the pool at the beginning and at the end of the lease.
As to the beginning, there was a dispute in these proceedings as to the correct version of the ingoing inspection report: the landlords' evidence below was that they never received a copy with the tenants' comments, and that presumably explains why there was no finding by the Tribunal below sufficient to engage the presumption in s 30(1) of the RT Act, which provides: "(1) A condition report that is signed by both the landlord and the tenant is presumed to be a correct statement, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, of the state of repair or general condition of the residential premises on the day specified in the report."
Nevertheless, for the purpose of considering whether to grant leave we observe that the ingoing tenant report put forward by the tenants does not differ from the landlords' assertion in that report that the 'poolwater/pool lining; pool equipment/pool fence' was 'clean, undamaged and working'. In short, it is not disputed on the tenants' own evidence that the pool and its constituent parts were in good order at the start of the lease. 
At the end of the residential tenancy agreement (13 December 2013) the evidence was that one of the tenants was present on that day when the landlords' inspection was ready to be conducted. Although it does not matter, the tenants may have continued in possession for a few more days until 16 December 2013 to continue to clean or repair the premises. The landlord conducted a further inspection on 16 December 2013 and prepared an outgoing inspection report which was not in the prescribed form. 
This failure to use the prescribed form does not prevent the Tribunal from assessing, on evidence, the state of the premises at or shortly after the time the lease ended and then considering the reasonable costs of repair of restoration, or of cleaning, as contemplated by s 166 of the RT Act. It is apparent from the reasons that this is what the Tribunal did. The photos and the email were created sufficiently close to the end of the residential tenancy agreement to allow the Tribunal to make findings of fact as to the state of the premises. There was evidence as to what was needed to sufficiently repair and restore. There is no question of law here nor any sufficient basis to grant leave.
The key reasons on this issue were as follows:
This reasoning complies with s 62 of the Act. The complaints made by the tenants in their submissions do not raise questions of law, nor, for the reasons already given, do they raise any issue which would justify a grant of leave.
The reasons here were essentially as follows:
The tenants submit that the 'invoice' referred to in the reasons was only an 'estimate'. The estimate, if that is what it was, meets the definition of the 'reasonable costs of repairs to or restoration of, the residential premises' within the meaning of s 166(1)(a) of the RT Act.
What, unfortunately is unclear from the reasons, is whether the ingoing inspection report referred to in the reasons is that signed by the tenants (as the tenants contend) or signed by the landlords alone (as the landlords contend). If it is the latter, the reasons needed to, but did not, make findings as to why the landlords' version had been accepted as the 'ingoing inspection report'. If it is the former there are written comments by the tenants including as to the state of the paintwork in their version of the report in the bedroom and on the staircase, which would need to be considered when deciding whether all of the invoiced amount for repairs falls within s 166(1)(a) of the RT Act. There is no need to receive further evidence on this topic. 
It follows that there was an error of law in making this determination without having made the necessary earlier finding concerning which ingoing inspection report is to be preferred because without such a finding there is no nexus as required by s 166(1)(a) of the RT Act.
That error does not affect the amounts in the invoice concerning the bench top ($660), the repair of a blind in the main bedroom ($110) and removal of charcoal from the garden beds ($132).
We therefore set this aspect of the decision on repairs aside and remit it to Member Howe for reconsideration. It will be a matter for him whether there is a need for any further hearing or whether he is now in a position to reconsider matters on the papers and provide reasons on this sole remaining issue. The remainder of the decision is confirmed.
For these reasons the Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) The appeal is allowed in part. (2) The claim for painting for $1652 is remitted back to Member B Howe for reconsideration without further evidence, pursuant to s 81(1)(e) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act. (3) The decision under review is otherwise confirmed.
############# I'm default separator ##########58
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - residential tenancy -whether right to occupy premises arises under the Contractof Sale or separateResidential Tenancy Agreement - whether new ground of appeal raised whereproceedings already determined by AppealPanel in earlier appeal - no new groundor issue - no error - appeal dismissed.
The appellant, Mr Hudson, is the tenant of premises at Burraneer in NSW under an agreement entered into between the appellant and the respondent as part of set of transactions relating to the appellant's sale of the premises to the respondent.
In January 2014, the Tribunal held that it did not have jurisdiction to hear the matter as a result of the operation of s 8(1)(f) of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) (the RT Act). On I July 2014, the Appeal Panel upheld an appeal against this decision, see Arap 1 (NSW) Pty Ltd v Hudson  [2014] NSWCATAP 30, and remitted the matter to the Consumer and Commercial Division to be heard. 
On 21 August 2014, the matter came before the Tribunal for a second time. On that occasion, orders were made terminating the tenancy agreement and giving possession to the respondent. 
The appellant now appeals against that decision. For the reasons given below, we are of the view that the appeal should be dismissed. 
This appeal is against a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division in proceeding RT 13/66464 made on 21 August 2014. On that date, the following orders were made: (1) The Residential Tenancy Agreement is terminated in accordance with s 84 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010, as the landlord has served a termination notice for termination at the end of the fixed term.
The appellant lodged his notice of appeal form on 8 September 2014. The appeal was lodged within time. A stay of the orders was requested but as the suspended date for possession had not yet passed, the matter was listed for an urgent hearing so as to avoid any prejudice to either party by the granting or not granting a stay. 
The matter was listed for hearing on 26 September 2014. On that occasion, the appellant appeared in person and Mr Rodgers, solicitor, appeared for the respondent. The appellant sought an adjournment on the basis that he had not been able to obtain representation for that hearing. The Appeal Panel decided to grant a short adjournment and ordered that the hearing of the appeal should be stood over to 2.15pm on Thursday 9 October 2014.
The Panel also gave directions for the filing and serving of written submissions by the parties, if they so wished. At the same time, it was formally noted in the orders that:
At the hearing on 9 October 2014, Ms Breeze of counsel appeared for the appellant and Mr Docker of counsel appeared for the respondent. 
At the outset Ms Breeze made an oral application for leave to amend the grounds of appeal to include a ground to the effect that the agreement under which the appellant occupied the premises was not a residential tenancy agreement within the meaning of s 13(1) of the RT Act because the appellant was not granted a right of occupation "for value" under the agreement. The consequence was said to be that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to hear the matter. This ground was not formulated in writing. Mr Docker had only been given notice of the intention to seek leave to amend, immediately before the hearing commenced. The argument had not been raised in the Tribunal below or in the previous Appeal Panel hearing in this matter which had determined that the Tribunal did have jurisdiction. 
Significantly, the proposed ground of appeal appeared to be inconsistent with the findings made by the Tribunal at first instance. At [1] of the reasons for decision published on 21 August 2014, the Tribunal found:
Further, at [13] in the reasons for decision below it was held:
These findings as to the existence and extent of at least part of the "value" in return for which the right of occupation was granted under the tenancy agreement were not sought to be challenged on this appeal. Without these findings being challenged and overturned, there is no appropriate basis to conclude that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction for the reason that the agreement under which the appellant occupied the premises was not a residential tenancy agreement within the meaning of s 13(1) of the RT Act because the appellant was not granted a right of occupation "for value" under the agreement. 
In other words, these unchallenged findings are sufficient to meet any argument that the Tribunal lacked jurisdiction on the basis sought to be raised. In addition, the Appeal Panel had already determined that the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear and determine this matter on 1 July 2014 in Arap 1 (NSW) Pty Ltd v Hudson  [2014] NSWCATAP 30 and there had been no appeal against that decision. 
The appellant submitted that the issue raised by this proposed ground of appeal would turn on the factual circumstances surrounding what were said to be complex transactions which included the contract of sale of the property, the agreement under which the appellant became a tenant and an option agreement. It was conceded by Ms Breeze that there was no question but that the respondent may have conducted its case differently and led different evidence in the Tribunal below if this issue had been raised at first instance. The situation appears to be similar to the circumstances referred to by Mason J in O'Brien v. Komesaroff [1982] HCA 33;  (1982) 150 CLR 310 at 319 (even though the Appeal Panel is far from an ultimate court of appeal):
In the circumstances, the Panel refused the oral application and gave some limited oral reasons for doing so at that time. 
The appellant then sought an adjournment for the purpose of making a written application for leave to amend the grounds of appeal as foreshadowed in the oral application. This application was also refused. 
From some of the circumstances raised in submissions from the bar table, it appeared to the Appeal Panel that the circumstances surrounding the transactions in this matter might raise issues that extend far beyond the present dispute concerning termination of a tenancy agreement. If this is so, and the Appeal Panel has no basis for concluding whether it is or not, it appeared to the Panel that is would be preferable for the present appeal to be determined expeditiously so that the parties could take whatever action they might be advised in any appropriate forum. 
In the notice of appeal the appellant identified 7 grounds of appeal all of which related to the question of whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction to deal with the application because of the terms of the RT Act, s 8(1)(f).
Section 8(1)(f) provides:
The problem that arises with the present appeal is that the Appeal Panel has already heard and determined an appeal in relation to these proceedings in Arap 1 (NSW) Pty Ltd v Hudson  [2014] NSWCATAP 30. That earlier appeal decided the very question that the appellant wishes to have determined on this appeal, namely, whether s 8(1)(f) of the RT Act applies in the present case so that the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the application. In the earlier appeal, determined on 1 July 2014, the Appeal Panel held that the Tribunal did have jurisdiction notwithstanding s 8(1)(f) of the RT Act. The Appeal Panel's reasons were, in summary, that the right of occupation in this case was conferred by the agreement under which the appellant occupied the premises, the tenancy agreement, and not the contract for sale. Consequently, the Tribunal was not deprived of jurisdiction by s 8(1)(f). 
The question in the present appeal arises as a result of circumstances found in the earlier Appeal Panel decision at [18] to [22] and which were not sought to be challenged then. These findings are also consistent with findings by the Tribunal below, which have also not been sought to be challenged on this appeal. 
The appellant, as vendor, and the respondent, as purchaser, entered into a contract for sale of land in relation to the Burraneer premises on 19 November 2012. Clause 41 of that contract provided:
Clause 30.2 of the contract contained the following definition of the term "Tenancy Agreement":
The contract was completed on 7 December 2012 and the parties entered into the Tenancy Agreement as defined in cl 30.2 on that same day. It is that agreement which is the subject of the termination orders made by the Tribunal below on 21 August 2014. Clause 1 of that agreement provided as follows:
The Tenancy Agreement contained an annexure headed "Annexure A Part 3 Special Terms". Special Terms 1, 5 and 6 provided as follows:
The appellant's first ground of appeal highlights the problem arising out of the earlier appeal. The ground is in the following form:
Given the nature and function of appeals to the Appeal Panel under the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act), the Tribunal when constituted at Divisional level cannot be said to have erred simply because it relied on a decision of the Appeal Panel as to jurisdiction in the very proceedings, where the Appeal Panel had determined the issue that was raised and had remitted the proceedings to the Tribunal to be heard on the basis that it did have jurisdiction. 
In Arap 1 (NSW) Pty Ltd v Hudson [2014] NSWCATAP 30 the Appeal Panel determined the issue of whether the Tribunal lacked jurisdiction to hear and determine the application in this matter by operation of s 8(1)(f) of the RT Act having regard to the same or substantially similar matters as are raised in grounds 2, 3 and 4: see, in particular, [22] - [25] and [30] of those reasons for decision. To that extent, neither ground 1 nor grounds 2, 3 or 4 raise any new matters or arguments that were not covered by the Appeal Panel's original decision. Thus, this appeal to the extent that it based on these grounds should be dismissed.
Whilst it might be appropriate to characterise these grounds of appeal as an abuse of process or "otherwise misconceived", to use the terminology of s 55(1)(b) of the Act, and to deal with them accordingly, the Appeal Panel believes it is sufficient in the present case simply to dismiss the appeal to the extent that it is based on grounds 1, 2 3 and 4. 
The remaining grounds 5, 6 and 7 raise the issue of whether cl 43.2 of the contract for sale between the appellant and the respondent has the effect that the right to occupy the premises after completion of the sale was conferred by the contract for sale and not the Tenancy Agreement. 
It does not appear that any argument based upon cl 43.2 was advanced at the hearing below or at the earlier appeal. As the question is one of construction and there is no contested issue of fact, the Appeal Panel will address the substance of these grounds, having regard to the obligations imposed by ss 36 and 38 of the Act. 
The appellant's argument in this regard is based upon cl 43.2 of the contract for sale which was a special condition in the following terms:
Despite ground 7 in the document attached to the notice of appeal which suggested that cl 43.2 was as follows:
Ms Breeze indicated that the words set out in ground 7 (quoted in the preceding paragraph) were merely the appellant's submission as to how cl 43.2 should be construed. 
In the light of cl 41 read with cl 30.2 of the contract for sale and cl 1 of the Tenancy Agreement (which have been quoted above), cl 43.2 provides no basis for concluding that the right of occupation of the premises was conferred by the contract for sale rather than the Tenancy Agreement. Clause 43.2 appears to be designed to circumscribe the ability of the parties to argue that their prior negotiations and communications form part of the terms of the contract for sale. The clause does not even refer to the Tenancy Agreement and it could not be construed as having the effect that the Tenancy Agreement was a part of the contract for sale and not an independent agreement, albeit related to the contract for sale. It is entirely possible for the contract for sale to contain the entire understanding between the parties concerning the subject matter of that contract and the right of occupation of the premises to be conferred by the Tenancy Agreement and not the contract for sale. Thus, it does not follow from the terms of cl 43.2 that the RT Act did not apply in the circumstances of this case by virtue of s 8(1)(f) of that Act. 
Furthermore, even if the appellant were correct in its submission that cl 43.2 should be construed as meaning "the Contract contained the entire understanding between the parties concerning the sale of the property and the right to occupy the property from the date of completion of the sale", it would not have the consequence that the right of occupation was conferred by the contract for sale. 
The parties' understanding appears to have been that the right to occupy the premises after completion was to be conferred by the Tenancy Agreement not the contract for sale. As it happened, the Tenancy Agreement was entered into on 7 December 2012, the date of completion. A right to occupy the premises was conferred by cl 1 of the Tenancy Agreement. No separate or distinct right of occupation after completion has been identified by the appellant in the contract for sale. 
The appellant's submission was essentially that the contract for sale and the Tenancy Agreement were in substance one agreement not two. Thus, it was submitted that the right of occupation was conferred by the contract for sale. This, however, is inconsistent with the findings made by the Tribunal below and by the Appeal Panel in the earlier appeal as to the existence and terms of the two separate but obviously related agreements, the contract for sale and the Tenancy Agreement. No challenge was made to those findings in the earlier appeal and no challenge has been made in this appeal to the relevant findings in the Tribunal below. In any event, cl 43.2 does not provide any support for this submission. 
On these bases, the Appeal Panel is of the view that cl 43.2 does not have the effect that the right of occupation on the vendor/appellant after completion was conferred by the contract for sale. That right was conferred by the Tenancy Agreement. That conclusion is not affected by the fact that completion of the contract for sale was conditional upon the parties entering into the Tenancy Agreement. 
Thus, grounds 5, 6 and 7 do not provide any basis for upholding the appeal. 
At the conclusion of the hearing both the appellant and the respondent indicated that neither of them wished to make any application for costs in relation to the appeal. 
For these reasons, this appeal should be dismissed. In addition, the Appeal Panel should make formal orders dealing with the applications to amend the grounds of appeal and for an adjournment, which were refused. 
Finally, in order to ensure that the appellant could take any further steps he wished to take before a warrant for possession of the premises would be executed, the Appeal Panel accepted an undertaking by counsel for the respondent designed to ensure that any warrant for possession was not executed before 22 October 2014. 
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel:  (1) accepts the undertaking by counsel for the respondent on behalf of the respondent that the respondent will not cause or request any warrant for possession of the premises the subject of these proceedings to be executed prior to midnight on 21 October 2014 and that the respondent will request the Sheriff not to execute such a warrant prior to that time. 
############# I'm default separator ##########59
Substantial miscarriage of justice, out of time, against the weight ofevidence.
The Appeal Panel made orders in these proceedings on 2 October 2014. 
At that time the Appeal Panel indicated it would publish written reasons. These are those reasons.
This is an appeal from the decision of the Tribunal in the Consumer and Commercial Division made on 10 June 2014 (file number RT 14/ 24787).
The appellant is the landlord and the respondents are the tenants in a residential tenancy agreement entered into between the parties.
On 10 June 2014 the Tribunal Member made orders for payment of the sum of $680 by the landlord to the tenants in respect of two issues. The first was an order for $300 as compensation for the excess on an insurance policy paid by the tenants in respect of a claim they had made on their insurer for damage to their electrical goods. The damage was found to be due to water ingress to the residential premises where the electrical goods were located. The second part of the order related to $380 awarded for reduction or withdrawal of services by the landlord due to the air conditioner in the fourth bedroom not working.
In addition, on 10 June 2014 the Tribunal made orders by consent of the parties for the landlord to carry out certain work to the residential premises including cleaning out the gutters and repair or replacement of the air conditioner to bedroom 4. The Tribunal then heard and determined claims for compensation and made an award of $680 in favour of the Respondents, being $300 for water damage to goods and $380 for a non-functioning air conditioning unit.
It is the order for payment of $680 that is under appeal.
The appellant filed a Notice of Appeal on 1 July 2014 and the respondents filed a Reply to the Notice of Appeal on 15 July 2014. Attached to those notices were a number of documents on which the parties sought to rely.
On 18 August 2014, Wright J, President of the Tribunal, made directions that the parties file and serve any further material to be relied on. The parties agreed that they had not filed any further material in response to those directions.
At the commencement of the hearing the appellant's representative was put on notice that his appeal was out of time.
The Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014, rule 25(4) requires that in residential proceedings an appeal must be lodged within 14 days of the appellant being notified of the Tribunal decision. The decision was notified to the parties on 10 June 2014. The appeal was filed on 1 July 2014. Accordingly the appeal was filed outside the time limitation.
The appellant sought leave to amend his Notice of Appeal to seek an extension of time pursuant to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, s 41.
There was no objection by the respondents and by consent the time to file the appeal was extended pursuant to the provisions of s 41 to 1 July 2014, the date the appeal was in fact lodged.
There was an issue whether the grounds in the Notice of Appeal raised a question of law or whether the ground identified required leave to appeal. The Notice of Appeal did not originally seek such leave
Following discussion about the provisions of section 80 and Schedule 4 Clause 12 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (which relates to the requirements for leave)the appellant sought and was granted leave to amend the Notice of Appeal to seek leave to appeal as the issues raised were not questions of law. In essence the issues identified were whether the evidence presented to the Tribunal was sufficient to justify the orders for compensation made in relation to the electrical goods and the non-functioning air conditioning unit.
In allowing the amendment the Appeal Panel was satisfied that the substance of the appeal remained unchanged and there was no prejudice to the respondents.
It was explained to the parties that in order for the Appeal Panel to grant leave under s 80(2)(b) and Schedule 4 Clause 12, the Appeal Panel must be satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice. Reference was made to the decision of the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 which set out the principles for grant of leave.
The parties were informed that if leave was granted the Appeal Panel would then decide the second question of whether the appeal should be allowed.
In relation to the $300 awarded for compensation being an amount equal to the insurance excess it was submitted that the respondents had failed to provide evidence from the insurer in its letter that the cause of the damage to their electrical equipment was water ingress and that the area in which they had stored their electrical equipment was an outside area that should not have been used for that purpose.
However, the appellant did not dispute that evidence was given at the hearing that the electrical goods were in fact stored in the area in question and that they had been damaged by water ingress.
The appellant agreed with the proposition put by the respondents that the area in question in which the respondents had stored their equipment was a fully enclosed area with a roof, windows, door and power outlets (although the appellant was unable to confirm the respondents' statement that the power points were of an internal type) and that the area was intended for use as a water-tight living area. The photographic material submitted by the appellant with the Notice of Appeal supports such a conclusion.
However, in regard to this issue and the issue of compensation for the non-working air conditioner in bedroom 4 the appellant's submission was that there was a lack of documentary evidence to support the decision made by the Tribunal. 
The appellant did not dispute that the Tribunal was not bound by the rules of evidence and was entitled to take oral evidence from the parties and attribute appropriate weight to that evidence. 
The appellant did not dispute the respondents' submission that they had given oral evidence that the electrical goods had in fact been damaged by water ingress. However the appellant submitted that the evidence by way of letter from the insurance company in respect of a claim for damaged goods did not establish that those good were damaged by water ingress relating to blocked gutters
In regard to the air conditioner the appellant did not dispute that the air conditioner in bedroom 4 was included as a facility provided pursuant to the residential tenancy agreement or that it was not working for a period of about 17 weeks. The appellant further agreed that the circumstances demonstrated a breach of the residential tenancy agreement by the landlord.
The appellant's submission was that there was no documentary medical evidence to support the respondents' claim that their daughter had a medical condition that precluded use of the room due to lack of air conditioning.
The respondents submitted that all of the documentary material provided with their notice of reply to the appeal was available to the Tribunal Member at the hearing and that in addition they had given a full explanation of the circumstances surrounding their claim to the Member.
The respondents submitted that the area in which the electrical goods were stored is a covered and enclosed area used as part of the living area of the residential premises.
The respondents also submitted they had advised the Tribunal Member that their daughter suffers from excessive nose bleeds and was unable to sleep in bedroom 4 for a period of about 17 weeks. They had on several occasions contacted the landlord about the lack of air conditioning in bedroom 4 but there had been no response. Emails were in evidence before the Appeal Panel of some communications on this subject.
The Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 considered the meaning of "substantial miscarriage of justice". After reviewing relevant cases it was said at paragraph 71 that 
That case also reviewed the principles to be applied in determining a grant of leave. It is useful to again set out those principles from para 84 of the decision.
The essence of the appeal is that the evidence before the Tribunal Member was insufficient to support the findings of fact. That is, the decision was "not fair and equitable" or "against the weight of the evidence" and that as a result the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice.
There are two separate matters that must be evaluated.
First is the claim that the Tribunal was in error in concluding that there was water ingress that damaged the electrical goods and that the respondents suffered damage of $300.
The consent order to clean the gutters supports a conclusion that the gutters may have been blocked and caused water ingress in the relevant area. Photographic evidence provided in the appeal supports this view.
The appellant did not dispute that the area in which the respondents had stored their electrical equipment was part of the living accommodation and that it was intended to be water-tight. The appellant did not dispute that there was oral evidence given at the hearing in relation to the cause of the damage to the electrical goods being water ingress.
It is clear to the Appeal Panel that the Tribunal Member had before him a number of documents and oral evidence from which he could conclude that damage to the respondents' electrical goods was due to water ingress to the premises. The quotation to repair the goods attached to the Respondents' Reply to Appeal confirms water damage to the goods.
The respondents did not make a claim for all the actual loss suffered as a result of the damaged goods but only that part of their loss arising from the damaged goods not covered being equivalent to the excess payable under their insurance policy of $300. This amount was paid in making the insurance claim as acknowledged in the letter from the insurance company
The Appeal Panel is therefore satisfied that there was sufficient evidence available to the Tribunal to support the determination that the respondents' suffered an actual loss of $300 in respect of the damaged goods due to water ingress to the residential premises for which they were entitled to be compensated.
In relation to the second matter, the Appeal Panel is satisfied there was evidence before the Tribunal that was not disputed by the appellant that in failing to rectify the air conditioner for bedroom 4, of which the appellant was on notice, the appellant was in breach of his obligations under the residential tenancy agreement.
It was not necessary for the respondents to establish any medical condition of their daughter. However, their oral testimony on this matter provided a basis for the Tribunal Member to conclude bedroom 4 was not capable of being fully utilised as a bedroom during the 17 weeks the air conditioner was not working. Accordingly it was open to the Tribunal to conclude there was a breach of the residential tenancy agreement and a withdrawal of services. 
The appellant informed the Appeal Panel that the Tribunal assessed damages at a rate of $20.00 per week due to the failure to provide a functioning air conditioner. 
Ultimately the assessment of the sum to be awarded as compensation by way of damages for the withdrawal of the air conditioning services was a matter for determination by the Member and the amount of $20.00 per week, a total of $380.00, has not been shown to be unreasonable in circumstances where there was evidence to show the living space could not be used. 
Having regard to these conclusions, the appellant has not established there was a substantial miscarriage of justice on the basis that the decision on either issue was not fair and equitable or was against the weight of the evidence and the application for leave to appeal was refused.
Accordingly the Tribunal made the following orders: (1) By consent the appellant has leave to appeal out of time and time is extended pursuant to s41 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 up to 1 July 2014. (2) The appellant has leave to amend the Notice of Appeal to seek leave to appeal in accordance with section 80 and Schedule 4 cl 12 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013. (3) The application for leave to appeal is refused. (4) The appeal is otherwise dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########60
CIVIL AND ADMINSITRATIVE TRIBUNAL - APPEAL - question of law - proceduralfairness - bias - other grounds - whether substantial injusticeif leave refused-
Dragan Marjanac has appealed against a decision of the Tribunal made on 1 July 2014 that he pay Siobodan and Milanka Plavsic $36,212.88 to rectify defects in a pergola that he contracted to build on their property. The proceedings were brought under the Home Building Act 1989 (NSW). We have decided to dismiss the appeal because the Tribunal did not make any legal error in coming to its decision nor has Mr Marjanac suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice which would justify giving him permission to go ahead with the appeal: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
The Tribunal's reasons in full were as follows:
In addition to ordering Mr Marjanac to pay the Plavsics $36,212.88, the Tribunal dismissed Mr Marjanac's cross-application Mr Marjanac did not appeal against that decision.
Mr Marjanac has the right to appeal on a "question of law" but must seek the Appeal Panel's leave (permission) to appeal "on any other grounds": NCAT Act, s 80(2)(b). Our understanding of the grounds of appeal on "questions of law" are that: (1) the Tribunal did not afford Mr Marjanac procedural fairness because it did not give him enough time to present his case and did not take his evidence into account; and 
The Appeal Panel may only give permission for an appeal on grounds other than a question of law to go ahead if it is satisfied Mr Marjanac may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because: 
The meaning of "substantial miscarriage of justice" was summarised by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [71] and [79]:
In summary, Mr Marjanac's grounds of appeal on questions other than questions of law were that: (1) The decision was not "fair and equitable" because the Plavsics were awarded $17,121.88 more than the total cost of the job and Mr Marjanac's quotes and estimates to repair the damage were not considered. 
Mr Marjanac conceded that the Plavsics are entitled to be compensated for the cost of repairing the leaking skylight. He submitted that the Appeal Panel set aside the Tribunal's decision and substitute a decision that the Plavsics pay him $4,000 "being a fair and reasonable amount owing, taking into consideration the deduction of the price of replacing the skylight." As Mr Marjanac did not appeal against the Tribunal's decision dismissing his cross application, the Appeal Panel has no jurisdiction to make an order in relation to that decision. 
It would be a breach of the NCAT Act and the unwritten or common law rules of procedural fairness if the Tribunal did not ensure that Mr Marjanac had 'a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have (his) submissions considered in the proceedings': NCAT Act, s 38(5)(c). We have listened to the tape-recording of the Tribunal proceedings which was also available to the parties. Mr Marjanac gave his evidence and submissions through a Serbian interpreter. 
Mr Marjanac's main point about procedural unfairness was that he was not allowed to arrange for a builder to provide a quote for the rectification work that needed to be done because he was denied access to the Plavsics' property. In the hearing before the Tribunal the Plavsics deny that Mr Marjanac requested access. Mr Marjanac admitted that he did not apply to the Tribunal for an order for access or request that the matter be re-listed so that he could seek such an order. That may have been because he did not know that he was entitled to do so but there was no evidence before the Appeal Panel on that issue. Mr Marjanac had the opportunity to make an application for access and, in the circumstances of this case, the fact that he did not do so does not amount to a breach of procedural fairness on the Tribunal's part.
The hearing took about an hour. That was sufficient time for the Tribunal to hear the case. The application and cross application were relatively straight forward both factually and legally. The Tribunal member structured the hearing in a manner which allowed Mr Marjanac to respond to the homeowners' application and to point to the evidence and make submissions in support of his cross application. The member questioned both parties about particular matters and also asked them on more than one occasion if there was anything else they wanted to say. In our view the Member gave Mr Marjanac an adequate opportunity to respond to the case against him and to present his own case.
We understand Mr Marjanac's main points to be that: (1) in the reasons for decision the Tribunal referred only to what the Plavsics said and not to what he said;
Bias may be actual or apprehended. Whether a Tribunal member is actually biased in any case is a question of fact. In South Western Sydney Area Health Service v Edmonds [2007] NSWCA 16, McColl JA (with whom Giles and Tobias JJA agreed) said (footnotes omitted):
Mr Marjanac did not provide a statement or any other documentary evidence to support his submission that the Tribunal member was actually biased. Given the stringent test for actual bias, we are not satisfied that Mr Marjanac has proved his allegation.
The test for apprehended bias was set out in Ebner v Official Trustee in Bankruptcy  [2000] HCA 63;  (2000) 205 CLR 337 at  [6]. There will be a reasonable apprehension of bias:
The Tribunal's reasons were short. They did not refer to the evidence in detail but rather made findings of fact and reached conclusions in relation to each of the claims. A fair minded person reading those reasons would not apprehend that the Member was biased against Mr Marjanac. Similarly, the fact that the member reached a decision quickly does not mean that he had not read the evidence or taken it into account. 
During the hearing there was some discussion about the fact that Mr Marjanac had filed and served his material after the date on which the Tribunal had directed him to do so. He explained that his daughter had telephoned the Tribunal and had been told that it was not too late to file further material. The Tribunal member asked him, in a rather abrupt manner, whether he or his daughter was running the claim. Mr Marjanac explained to the Member that it was his claim but that he cannot operate on his own because of his lack of English language skills. After satisfying himself that the homeowners had not suffered any prejudice from the late service, the Tribunal admitted the documents into evidence. 
The Tribunal member's manner throughout the hearing was brusque. But he adopted that style when speaking to both parties. In the circumstances the Tribunal's question does not meet the test for apprehended bias. 
Mr Marjanac's appeal on questions of law is dismissed.
Mr Marjanac submitted that it is unfair and inequitable for him to pay $17,121.88 because that is double the amount necessary to place the Plavsics back in the same position they would have been in had the pergola not been built. This argument does not reflect the correct legal principle relating to compensation. Mr Marjanac built a defective pergola and charged $19,000. He admits that the homeowners are entitled to the cost of repairing the skylight but disputes the remaining rectification work. Even on Mr Marjanac's own analysis it is fair and equitable that he pays the Plavsics the cost of rectifying the skylight. 
However, the Tribunal accepted the expert evidence submitted by the Plavsics, which is that significantly more work than replacing the skylight needs to be done to rectify the defective pergola. The Tribunal also accepted the cheapest quote for undertaking that work.. There is nothing unfair or inequitable about Mr Marjanac being ordered to pay the cost of rectification work which the Tribunal found to be necessary so that the Plavsics ultimately receive what Mr Marjanac promised he would build - a pergola without defects, or with the defects rectified. There is also nothing unfair or inequitable in the quote being obtained before the expert report, in circumstances where the expert report supports the scope of works set out in the quote.
The evidence which Mr Marjanac said that the Tribunal did not take into account was: (1) a quote of $732 from Universal Roofing and Accessories to replace the skylight; and
Mr Marjanac mentioned the quote in his evidence. The fact that the Tribunal preferred to rely on a quote from tradesmen who had inspected the pergola does not mean that the ultimate decision was "against the weight of evidence". The same conclusion applies to the fact that the Tribunal accepted, on the basis of expert evidence, that more work than simply replacing the skylight needs to be done.
The second point that Mr Marjanac made about the evidence was that the Tribunal did not take into account the report of his expert, KOS Constructions (NSW) Pty Ltd dated 7 June 2014. During the hearing the Tribunal Member asked Mr Marjanac to identify the evidence on which he relied. He pointed to the KOS Constructions report. The Tribunal noted that $1,350 had been quoted to fix the roof and skylight and to repair the ceiling. Mr Marjanac accepted that that was only one aspect of the work that the homeowners' expert had found to be defective. His point was that his expert's report 'was not further explored'. 
The Plavsics objected to the Tribunal taking the KOS Constructions report into account because it was not based on an inspection of the pergola. The member accepted the report into evidence and indicated that he would take into account the reason for the Plavsics' objection when assessing the weight he would give to that evidence. 
The Tribunal accepted the expert evidence provided by the Plavsics and gave little or no weight to the KOS Constructions report. In circumstances where the Tribunal had expert evidence from the homeowners and Mr Marjanac's expert had not had access to the premises, it cannot be said that the finding about defective work or the cost of rectification was against the weight of evidence. 
Mr Marjanac applied to the Tribunal for a summons to be issued to a Fair Trading Inspector who attended the premises and provided a report in relation to the skylight, to attend and give evidence. The Tribunal advised him by letter of 27 May 2014 that the Home Building Act precluded him from summonsing a NSW Fair Trading Inspector to attend a hearing as a witness. The letter suggested that Mr Marjanac may wish to amend his summons to request that the Inspector provide any relevant documents. He did not do so. 
In his submissions on appeal Mr Marjanac repeated his request that a summons be issued to the Fair Trading Inspector. He regards that Inspector's evidence as being reliable because he is an employee of an independent body. He also wants to provide his own expert building inspection report and further quotations in relation to the repairs. 
The legislation provides for the Appeal Panel to grant leave where there may be a substantial miscarriage of justice because "significant new evidence has arisen (being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with)." The evidence to which Mr Marjanac has referred was reasonably available at the time of the hearing before the Tribunal. Mr Marjanac could have summonsed any relevant documents from the Fair Trading Inspector if such documents exist and could have obtained an expert report and further quotations. Appealing against the Tribunal's decision does not give Mr Marjanac the opportunity to re-run a case that he has failed to prepare adequately the first time. 
Leave is refused for Mr Marjanac's appeal on grounds other than questions of law to proceed. 
Several issues that Mr Marjanac raised in written submissions are not relevant to any of his grounds of appeal. They include whether the Plavsics: (1) were owner builders;
Other irrelevant issues raised by Mr Marjanac included whether he: (1) attempted unsuccessfully on more than one occasion to fix the skylight; or
The issues raised in relation to the Plavsics are not relevant to Mr Marjanac's grounds of appeal because there is no evidence that the Plavsics were owner builders. The fact that they applied for and were granted relevant planning and building approvals does not mean that they were owner builders. In any event, even if the Plavsics were owner builders, this would not affect the statutory warranties Mr Marianac owed under s 18B of the Home Building Act. Mr Marianac owed those statutory warranties whether or not the Plavisics knew that he was not a licenced builder. Further, there is no evidence that the problems with the work undertaken by Mr Marjanac were caused by the pergola design or by the installation of shutters. 
The issue of whether Mr Marjanac unsuccessfully attempted to fix the skylight is also irrelevant as there was no dispute that this was the case. The issue of whether Mr Marjanac filed and served his evidence on time is irrelevant because the Tribunal member admitted the evidence. 
Mr Marjanac alleges that the Plavsics committed fraud in order to strengthen their case. He said that one of the signatures on the quotation document is not his, that the words and symbols "+ insulation" and "* door as agreed" were not written by him. He does not deny that the Plaviscs paid him an extra $1,000 in final payment but he maintains that "we never signed for it". These allegations were not raised at the Tribunal hearing and the Plavsics emphatically deny that they have acted fraudulently. 
The opportunity for Mr Marjanac to prove that he was entitled to be paid any money, whether because of a fraudulent act or otherwise, was at the Tribunal hearing. He did not do so then and he provided no evidence in support of his allegations on appeal. Furthermore, while Mr Marjanac alleges fraud he does not claim that the Plavsics obtained property belonging to him, obtained any financial advantage or caused any financial disadvantage to him: Crimes Act 1900
The Plavsics seek an order from the Appeal Panel that Mr Marjanac provides them with a written apology in relation to the 'false and defamatory' allegations he has made. That is not an order that the Appeal Panel has power to make but it does not reflect well on Mr Marjanac that he has made such serious allegations when he has not provided any affidavit or other evidence to support those allegations.
Mr Marjanac's appeal is dismissed because he has failed to persuade us that the Tribunal hearing was procedurally unfair or that the Member conducting the hearing appeared to be or was actually biased. The Tribunal gave Mr Marjanac a reasonable opportunity to present his case. The fact that he did not avail himself fully of the opportunity to put forward evidence which may have assisted his case does not mean that the Tribunal made an error of law. 
Leave to appeal on grounds other than a question of law is also refused. Mr Marjanac has not persuaded us that he has significant new evidence which was not available at the hearing, that the Tribunal's decision was against the weight of evidence or that the decision was not fair and equitable. There is no basis for a finding that he has suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice. 
############# I'm default separator ##########61
Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) -Internal appeal - whethersubstantial injustice because against the weight of evidence ordecision notfair and equitable
St George Community Housing (the appellant) has appealed against a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal to dismiss its application against a former tenant, Ms Kaya (the respondent). The appellant claimed that Ms Kaya had breached the tenancy agreement and should pay compensation of $1965.73.
The respondent has lived in the premises since 1991, initially with her husband who was the tenant pursuant to a residential tenancy agreement. When she and her husband separated in 2008, she signed a residential tenancy agreement in her own name. She gave vacant possession to the appellant landlord on 9 April 2014. The appellant's application to the Tribunal was for the respondent to pay compensation for the repair costs it said she caused the appellant to incur by building a fence around a garden bed and installing concrete in the yard during the period of her tenancy. Both parties agreed that the critical factual issue for the Tribunal was whether the fence and concrete had been installed by the respondent since her tenancy began in 2008. 
The respondent gave sworn evidence that she had not made any additions or alterations to the property since she commenced the tenancy in 2008. She said that the fence, garden beds and concrete were built or installed by her ex-husband before that time. That assertion was supported directly or indirectly, by statements from three other witnesses.
The Tribunal gave the following reasons for dismissing the appellant's application;
The appellant did not appeal on a question of law but sought leave to appeal "on any other grounds": Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 80(2)(b). In relation to appeals from the Consumer and Commercial Division leave can only be granted in the limited circumstances set out in Sch 4, cl 12: 
The issue for the Appeal Panel to determine is whether leave to appeal should be granted because there has been a substantial miscarriage of justice. The two grounds on which the appellant relied were that the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable and that it was against the weight of evidence. 
The meaning of "substantial miscarriage of justice" was summarised by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [71] and [79]:
The basis for the appeal was that the evidence did not support the finding of fact that the fence and concrete had not been installed by the respondent during her tenancy. As well as the evidence of witnesses, there was documentary evidence which, according to the appellant, should have led the Tribunal to find that the work had been carried out after March 2008. Each of those documents had been before the Tribunal but in its reasons it only referred to the "ingoing inspection report" also known as the "incoming condition report". The other documents were:
The Tribunal must make findings on the civil standard, that is, the balance of probabilities. Findings or inferences must be supported by some probative material or logical grounds: Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Eshetu  [1999] HCA 21; 197 CLR 611 at  [147] (Gummow J). The onus is on the appellant landlord to prove its case. 
The Tribunal referred to the incoming report as "ambiguous" and, in effect, as failing to give rise to an inference that the fence and concrete had been installed during the period of the respondent's tenancy. The report was signed by the parties when the tenancy commenced. It describes "grounds/garden" and "concrete paving" as being "clean", "undamaged" and "working". The appellant's submission was that since there was no express reference to the fence around the garden it was reasonable to infer that that item had been installed after the commencement of the tenancy on 10 March 2008. Referring to the photographs taken in April 2014, the appellant says that because the fence around the garden and the concrete in the yard are damaged, they must have been installed after March 2008 otherwise there would have been an express reference to them in the report.
In addition the appellant submits that the fence around the garden was an unsafe fence. Had the fence been in place in 2008 the incoming condition report would have noted it as unsafe. The fact that the incoming condition report did not describe it in that way leads to the conclusion that they were installed after 2008.
The respondent submitted that the incoming condition report did not specifically refer to the fence around the garden or to the concrete because neither the appellant nor the respondent thought it necessary to identify them expressly. 
We agree with the Tribunal that the incoming condition report is "ambiguous" in the sense that it does not constitute direct evidence that the fence and concrete were erected after March 2008, nor does that document allow such an inference to be drawn. 
The appellant referred to documents headed "Bonnyrigg Relocation Questionnaire" one of which was completed before the respondent's tenancy commenced and the other after it had commenced. The appellant submitted that the first of these reports was prepared for the purpose of considering whether the former husband could be relocated and the second for the purpose of considering whether the respondent could be relocated to another tenancy. On the forms there is provision for the tenant to list items constituting improvements to be considered for reimbursement or relocation. Neither document referred to the fence or the concrete
The appellant submitted that as there was there no reference in the 2007 questionnaire to the fence around the garden or to the concrete it was reasonable to infer that those items were not there at the time. If they had been, the landlord would have listed them on this document in case the tenant intended to seek reimbursement or request they be relocated. The appellant also submitted that because this document identified that there was a garden shed that had been installed by the previous tenant, the failure to mention the fence and concrete must be because they were not installed by the previous tenant but by the respondent. Similarly the fact that they were not referred to in the later report meant that the fence and concrete were installed by the tenant after March 2009, the date of the second questionnaire.
The respondent submitted that the omission of any reference to the fence and concrete can be explained by the fact that if the tenant did not seek reimbursement or relocation of those items there would be no need to refer to them. That submission is logical and we accept it. The questionnaires do not constitute probative evidence that the respondent erected the fence or installed the concrete. 
The appellant referred to a document headed "Annual Home Visit Questionnaire 2013/2014" dated on various dates between 25 to 29 October 2013, which had been signed by the appellant's representative and by the respondent. That form states that the tenant agrees to "remove fencing and bars". The appellant submits that that document constitutes evidence that the respondent acknowledged that she was obliged to remove the fencing. During the appeal hearing the appellant acknowledged that the effect of its submissions was that the fence must have been constructed between 2008, when the tenancy commenced, and October 2013 when this Questionnaire was completed. The appellant further acknowledged that another effect of its submissions was that the concrete was installed after October 2013 and before the end of the tenancy in April 2014.
With respect to the document dated 26 October 2013 containing the note "remove fencing and bars" the respondent submitted that it is not clear what fencing is being referred to. 
The reference to 'fencing' suggests that, at the time, the respondent accepted some obligation in relation to that matter. That does not necessarily mean that she agrees that she erected the fencing. Her sworn evidence was to the contrary. 
One consequence of the inferences the appellant seeks to draw is that the concrete must have been installed after the date of the Annual Home Visit Questionnaire in 2013. In our view that is highly unlikely given that the respondent had foreshadowed at that time that she would be leaving the premises and she did leave in April 2014. The appellant also relied on photographs taken in April 2014 which the appellant submitted depicted the damaged concrete and the unsafe fence. The photographs suggest that the concrete had been there for a considerably longer period than 7 months. 
An outgoing condition report was prepared in 2014 but was not signed by the respondent. It contained notations to the following effect: there was fencing around the garden, the grounds / garden and concrete paving which were not clean, undamaged or working and that the concrete was a "trip hazard". There was no dispute between the parties that when the tenancy ended in 2014 the fence around the garden and the concrete remained in place. 
The respondent submitted that the outgoing condition report was not signed because she did not agree with the notations on that report concerning the fence and concrete. The respondent also referred to an email she wrote to the appellant dated 24 October 2013 in which she complained about damage to the concrete having been caused by the appellant's workmen knocking down the car port. The respondent submitted that that may explain why the outgoing condition report described the concrete as damaged.
The appellant has not persuaded us that the Tribunal's decision was against the weight of evidence. The oral and written evidence from witnesses was to the effect that the respondent had not erected the fence or laid the concrete. None of the documentary evidence, either alone or in combination, directly contradicted that evidence or give rise to an inference that the witnesses' evidence was wrong. 
The appellant did not put any basis on which it could be said that the decision was not fair and equitable other than by reason of the documentary evidence. There has been no substantial miscarriage of justice and leave is refused.
############# I'm default separator ##########62
RESIDENTIAL TENANCIES - termination -leave to appeal.
The appellant Mr Steven Tailo was formerly the tenant of the premises known as 13/2-7 Tara Close, Yennora, New South Wales, which he leased from the respondent corporation.
On 4 June 2014, this tribunal's Consumer and Commercial Division terminated the residential tenancy agreement between the parties in accordance with s 90 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The tenancy agreement was terminated immediately and the tribunal directed that possession was to be given to the landlord on the date of termination.
On 5 June 2014, the divisional registrar wrote to the appellant informing him that a warrant for possession had been issued on the ground that Mr Tailo had not complied with the order for possession. The warrant was executed on 17 June 2014 and accordingly the appellant has not occupied the premises since then. In the meantime, on 13 June 2014 the appellant lodged a notice of appeal with this tribunal seeking to initiate an internal appeal to the Appeal Panel.
The appellant requested a stay of the operation of the orders made on 4 June 2014 pending the determination of his appeal. On 24 June 2014 Deputy President Westgarth refused the request for a stay on the ground that as the warrant had already been executed, there was no utility in ordering a stay.
On 13 August 2014, the Appeal Panel constituted by Wright J and Westgarth DP set a timetable for the filing and serving of written submissions and other material to be relied upon in relation to whether leave to appeal should be granted and in relation to the appeal itself if leave were granted. 
On 3 July 2014 the respondent filed written submissions but was unable to serve a copy on the appellant as it had no forwarding address for him and he no longer resides at the subject since the execution of the warrant of possession. The appellant filed no submissions other than those annexed to his notice of appeal.
In his reasons for the decision of 4 June 2014 (which is the subject of this appeal), Member Turley noted that the applicant (the respondent corporation in this appeal) had called three witnesses and fellow tenants who gave sworn evidence. The member said their evidence was consistent, unambiguous and that he accepted it as true and honest. That evidence revealed what he described as the worst case of abuse (both physical and verbal), harassment, nuisance and threats, including death threats, that he had ever heard in this tribunal.
Those witnesses were elderly and some were infirm. The member was satisfied on their sworn evidence that Mr Tailo had terrorized those people and made their lives a misery. One witness had moved away completely to avoid him and another would spend long periods of time staying with relatives to avoid Mr Tailo and his abuse.
Mr Tailo's answer to that evidence was the assertion "It's all lies, all lies", with no evidence to support his claim. He did have two relatives as witnesses present at the hearing, but they left the tribunal before their turn came to give evidence. Mr Tailo tried by telephone tried to persuade the proposed witnesses to return to the tribunal, but they failed to do so and no adjournment was requested. At the conclusion of his evidence Mr Tailo conceded that he had no evidence to support his allegations.
In its directions made on 13 August 2014, the Appeal Panel ordered that the matter be determined on the papers without an oral hearing.
Section 90 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The basic provision dealing with internal appeals in this tribunal is s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
Limitations on internal appeals against decisions of the Consumer and Commercial Division are imposed by cl 12 of schedule 4 of the CAT Act. "Division decision" is defined in cl 1 of schedule 4 as "a decision of the Tribunal in the exercise of a Division function". That includes a decision of the division when it is exercising functions under the RT Act, by virtue of the definitions of "the Division" and "Division function" in cl 1 and the provisions of cl 3(1) of schedule 4. Clause 12 reads as follows:
The appellant's notice of appeal relies on cl 12(1)(a) and (c). The issues before the Appeal Panel in this case are thus (1) whether leave to appeal is required and, if so, should be granted, and (2) whether or not the appeal itself succeeds.
The appellant's only submissions were filed as an attachment to his original notice of appeal. In them he argued that the original decision was unsound as the appellant had been at an unfair disadvantage by not being legally represented, while the landlord was. The tribunal's letter to him dated 8 April 2014 did not inform him that he could seek assistance from a tenants' advocacy service or legal aid.
English is not the appellant's first language and he did not fully understand the correspondence sent to him by the tribunal. His only source of advice about it was from office staff at Housing New South Wales, who were the original applicants.
The appellant suffers from a mental illness (depression) that may have presented further problems for him in representing himself. His witnesses left the tribunal before they were called to give evidence and he was unable to contact them by mobile telephone to recall them. That effectively denied him any opportunity to provide evidence. He submitted that the tribunal member should have seen that he was at an unfair disadvantage and adjourned the matter to allow him to obtain legal advice and representation.
The decision was not fair or equitable because of his language difficulties and his depression. Because of his difficulties in understanding the correspondence, he did not know that he needed to provide any information before the hearing. He did not receive Housing New South Wales's documents until 2 May 2014. He believed that the information had not been supplied to the tribunal in time and thus that the hearing would not proceed. For that reason he did not seek legal advice or obtain a tenant advocate.
When he arrived at the hearing he found that Housing New South Wales had a legal representative, who objected to his providing evidence because he had not supplied any evidentiary statements in advance.
He had brought his sister and niece to the tribunal to give evidence as they had both been to his house a number of times and could have told the tribunal what they had seen at the apartment block and how the other residents had treated him. While they were waiting outside during the proceedings they left and he was not able to contact them by telephone to recall them (Member Turley, however, had said that Mr Tailo did contact them but they did not return). He thus lost his only chance to provide evidence about his side of the dispute.
The reasons for decision do not properly explain the grounds for the order and simply state that the member believed the witnesses and not himself. He sought legal advice as quickly as he could after the hearing and was referred to the Campbelltown office of the tenants' advocacy service. They referred him to legal aid and in the result he was unable to obtain any legal advice until 11 June. Because of the seriousness of the hearing, which would result in his being homeless, he submitted that he should have had the opportunity of legal representation, or at least further time to obtain legal advice.
Further, evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing. If he had been legally advised he would have been able to present his side of the dispute and challenge the evidence called by the corporation. If the eviction order was overturned and a new hearing ordered, he would have the opportunity to seek legal assistance and present his version of events. He could provide statements by himself and his family that would dispute the account given by Housing New South Wales, as well as presenting medical evidence about his diagnosis.
When he spoke to a legal aid lawyer on 11 June 2014, he was told that he could provide statements and other evidence explaining his version of events. If he had known that before the hearing he would have sought legal advice and assistance for that purpose and thereby receive a fair hearing.
The first matter to be dealt with is the issue of leave to appeal. The CAT Act's basic rule in that regard is laid down in s 80(2), which states that in relation to any decision other than a first instance interlocutory decision, an internal appeal may be made as of right on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel on any other grounds. 
The requirements to be satisfied before leave to appeal can be granted against a Consumer and Commercial Division decision in a residential tenancy matter are comprehensively set out in the Appeal Panel's reasons for decision in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17, [65] - [79].
The fact that the statute imposes a leave requirement makes it clear that such appeals are not to be brought as a matter of routine. In the case of discretionary judgments there is a strong presumption in favour of correctness and decisions below will not be disturbed unless they are attended with sufficient doubt from which substantial injustice may have flowed: Niemann v Electronic Industries Ltd [1978] VicRp 44;  [1978] VR 431, 435 - 436,442. The criteria for granting leave are particularly strict in the case of interlocutory decisions: Nationwide News Pty Ltd v Bradshaw (1986) 84 FLR 49, 51 - 52, 60 - 61.
The decision challenged in this appeal is not an interlocutory one, but s 90(1) of the RT Act, which states that the tribunal "may" on the application of a landlord make a termination order, shows that the power exercised is a discretionary one. On general principles, therefore, leave to appeal would be unlikely to be granted.
It is unnecessary to canvass the appellant's grounds under cl 12(1) in detail, however, because in cl 12(2) of schedule 4 of the CAT Act, the appeal encounters an insuperable obstacle, one that did not arise in Collins v Urban. That provision states that an internal appeal against a Division decision may only be made on a question of law (as of right) and not on any other grounds, even with leave, if it is an appeal against an order of the tribunal for the termination of a tenancy under the RT Act and a warrant of possession has been executed in relation to it.
As was noted above, the decision in respect of which Mr Tailo seeks leave to appeal made an order for the termination of Mr Tailo's tenancy under the RT Act on 4 June 2014 and a warrant of possession was executed in relation to it on 17 June 2014.
The only avenue for an appeal is thus for an appeal on a question of law. The appellant's submissions, however, advance the claim that he was at a disadvantage in the hearing below because of his lack of language fluency, his depression and his failure to obtain legal advice in time for the hearing.
But this tribunal is structured and organized in such a way as to allow for the probability that a substantial proportion of parties will not be legally represented or familiar with tribunal and court procedures, and that some may lack fluency in English. There is no evidence to suggest that the normal accommodations made for parties in that position were not extended to him.
His submissions also state that he did not seek legal advice or a tenant advocate in time because he did not think the hearing would go ahead. That was his own decision and did not mean that he had been denied the opportunity to have his submissions considered within the meaning of s 38(5)(c) of the CAT Act or generally, nor did the fact that his intended witnesses left the hearing before giving evidence and refused to return. 
More importantly, however, those submissions plainly indicate no denial of procedural fairness or raise any other question of law. Consequently, therefore, by reason of cl 12(2), no internal appeal to the Appeal Panel may be brought. The application for leave to appeal, and the appeal itself, must therefore be dismissed.
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########63
RESIDENTIAL TENANCIES - termination -leave to appeal.
The appellant Mr Steven Tailo was formerly the tenant of the premises known as 13/2-7 Tara Close, Yennora, New South Wales, which he leased from the respondent corporation.
On 4 June 2014, this tribunal's Consumer and Commercial Division terminated the residential tenancy agreement between the parties in accordance with s 90 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The tenancy agreement was terminated immediately and the tribunal directed that possession was to be given to the landlord on the date of termination.
On 5 June 2014, the divisional registrar wrote to the appellant informing him that a warrant for possession had been issued on the ground that Mr Tailo had not complied with the order for possession. The warrant was executed on 17 June 2014 and accordingly the appellant has not occupied the premises since then. In the meantime, on 13 June 2014 the appellant lodged a notice of appeal with this tribunal seeking to initiate an internal appeal to the Appeal Panel.
The appellant requested a stay of the operation of the orders made on 4 June 2014 pending the determination of his appeal. On 24 June 2014 Deputy President Westgarth refused the request for a stay on the ground that as the warrant had already been executed, there was no utility in ordering a stay.
On 13 August 2014, the Appeal Panel constituted by Wright J and Westgarth DP set a timetable for the filing and serving of written submissions and other material to be relied upon in relation to whether leave to appeal should be granted and in relation to the appeal itself if leave were granted. 
On 3 July 2014 the respondent filed written submissions but was unable to serve a copy on the appellant as it had no forwarding address for him and he no longer resides at the subject since the execution of the warrant of possession. The appellant filed no submissions other than those annexed to his notice of appeal.
In his reasons for the decision of 4 June 2014 (which is the subject of this appeal), Member Turley noted that the applicant (the respondent corporation in this appeal) had called three witnesses and fellow tenants who gave sworn evidence. The member said their evidence was consistent, unambiguous and that he accepted it as true and honest. That evidence revealed what he described as the worst case of abuse (both physical and verbal), harassment, nuisance and threats, including death threats, that he had ever heard in this tribunal.
Those witnesses were elderly and some were infirm. The member was satisfied on their sworn evidence that Mr Tailo had terrorized those people and made their lives a misery. One witness had moved away completely to avoid him and another would spend long periods of time staying with relatives to avoid Mr Tailo and his abuse.
Mr Tailo's answer to that evidence was the assertion "It's all lies, all lies", with no evidence to support his claim. He did have two relatives as witnesses present at the hearing, but they left the tribunal before their turn came to give evidence. Mr Tailo tried by telephone tried to persuade the proposed witnesses to return to the tribunal, but they failed to do so and no adjournment was requested. At the conclusion of his evidence Mr Tailo conceded that he had no evidence to support his allegations.
In its directions made on 13 August 2014, the Appeal Panel ordered that the matter be determined on the papers without an oral hearing.
Section 90 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The basic provision dealing with internal appeals in this tribunal is s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
Limitations on internal appeals against decisions of the Consumer and Commercial Division are imposed by cl 12 of schedule 4 of the CAT Act. "Division decision" is defined in cl 1 of schedule 4 as "a decision of the Tribunal in the exercise of a Division function". That includes a decision of the division when it is exercising functions under the RT Act, by virtue of the definitions of "the Division" and "Division function" in cl 1 and the provisions of cl 3(1) of schedule 4. Clause 12 reads as follows:
The appellant's notice of appeal relies on cl 12(1)(a) and (c). The issues before the Appeal Panel in this case are thus (1) whether leave to appeal is required and, if so, should be granted, and (2) whether or not the appeal itself succeeds.
The appellant's only submissions were filed as an attachment to his original notice of appeal. In them he argued that the original decision was unsound as the appellant had been at an unfair disadvantage by not being legally represented, while the landlord was. The tribunal's letter to him dated 8 April 2014 did not inform him that he could seek assistance from a tenants' advocacy service or legal aid.
English is not the appellant's first language and he did not fully understand the correspondence sent to him by the tribunal. His only source of advice about it was from office staff at Housing New South Wales, who were the original applicants.
The appellant suffers from a mental illness (depression) that may have presented further problems for him in representing himself. His witnesses left the tribunal before they were called to give evidence and he was unable to contact them by mobile telephone to recall them. That effectively denied him any opportunity to provide evidence. He submitted that the tribunal member should have seen that he was at an unfair disadvantage and adjourned the matter to allow him to obtain legal advice and representation.
The decision was not fair or equitable because of his language difficulties and his depression. Because of his difficulties in understanding the correspondence, he did not know that he needed to provide any information before the hearing. He did not receive Housing New South Wales's documents until 2 May 2014. He believed that the information had not been supplied to the tribunal in time and thus that the hearing would not proceed. For that reason he did not seek legal advice or obtain a tenant advocate.
When he arrived at the hearing he found that Housing New South Wales had a legal representative, who objected to his providing evidence because he had not supplied any evidentiary statements in advance.
He had brought his sister and niece to the tribunal to give evidence as they had both been to his house a number of times and could have told the tribunal what they had seen at the apartment block and how the other residents had treated him. While they were waiting outside during the proceedings they left and he was not able to contact them by telephone to recall them (Member Turley, however, had said that Mr Tailo did contact them but they did not return). He thus lost his only chance to provide evidence about his side of the dispute.
The reasons for decision do not properly explain the grounds for the order and simply state that the member believed the witnesses and not himself. He sought legal advice as quickly as he could after the hearing and was referred to the Campbelltown office of the tenants' advocacy service. They referred him to legal aid and in the result he was unable to obtain any legal advice until 11 June. Because of the seriousness of the hearing, which would result in his being homeless, he submitted that he should have had the opportunity of legal representation, or at least further time to obtain legal advice.
Further, evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing. If he had been legally advised he would have been able to present his side of the dispute and challenge the evidence called by the corporation. If the eviction order was overturned and a new hearing ordered, he would have the opportunity to seek legal assistance and present his version of events. He could provide statements by himself and his family that would dispute the account given by Housing New South Wales, as well as presenting medical evidence about his diagnosis.
When he spoke to a legal aid lawyer on 11 June 2014, he was told that he could provide statements and other evidence explaining his version of events. If he had known that before the hearing he would have sought legal advice and assistance for that purpose and thereby receive a fair hearing.
The first matter to be dealt with is the issue of leave to appeal. The CAT Act's basic rule in that regard is laid down in s 80(2), which states that in relation to any decision other than a first instance interlocutory decision, an internal appeal may be made as of right on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel on any other grounds. 
The requirements to be satisfied before leave to appeal can be granted against a Consumer and Commercial Division decision in a residential tenancy matter are comprehensively set out in the Appeal Panel's reasons for decision in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17, [65] - [79].
The fact that the statute imposes a leave requirement makes it clear that such appeals are not to be brought as a matter of routine. In the case of discretionary judgments there is a strong presumption in favour of correctness and decisions below will not be disturbed unless they are attended with sufficient doubt from which substantial injustice may have flowed: Niemann v Electronic Industries Ltd [1978] VicRp 44;  [1978] VR 431, 435 - 436,442. The criteria for granting leave are particularly strict in the case of interlocutory decisions: Nationwide News Pty Ltd v Bradshaw (1986) 84 FLR 49, 51 - 52, 60 - 61.
The decision challenged in this appeal is not an interlocutory one, but s 90(1) of the RT Act, which states that the tribunal "may" on the application of a landlord make a termination order, shows that the power exercised is a discretionary one. On general principles, therefore, leave to appeal would be unlikely to be granted.
It is unnecessary to canvass the appellant's grounds under cl 12(1) in detail, however, because in cl 12(2) of schedule 4 of the CAT Act, the appeal encounters an insuperable obstacle, one that did not arise in Collins v Urban. That provision states that an internal appeal against a Division decision may only be made on a question of law (as of right) and not on any other grounds, even with leave, if it is an appeal against an order of the tribunal for the termination of a tenancy under the RT Act and a warrant of possession has been executed in relation to it.
As was noted above, the decision in respect of which Mr Tailo seeks leave to appeal made an order for the termination of Mr Tailo's tenancy under the RT Act on 4 June 2014 and a warrant of possession was executed in relation to it on 17 June 2014.
The only avenue for an appeal is thus for an appeal on a question of law. The appellant's submissions, however, advance the claim that he was at a disadvantage in the hearing below because of his lack of language fluency, his depression and his failure to obtain legal advice in time for the hearing.
But this tribunal is structured and organized in such a way as to allow for the probability that a substantial proportion of parties will not be legally represented or familiar with tribunal and court procedures, and that some may lack fluency in English. There is no evidence to suggest that the normal accommodations made for parties in that position were not extended to him.
His submissions also state that he did not seek legal advice or a tenant advocate in time because he did not think the hearing would go ahead. That was his own decision and did not mean that he had been denied the opportunity to have his submissions considered within the meaning of s 38(5)(c) of the CAT Act or generally, nor did the fact that his intended witnesses left the hearing before giving evidence and refused to return. 
More importantly, however, those submissions plainly indicate no denial of procedural fairness or raise any other question of law. Consequently, therefore, by reason of cl 12(2), no internal appeal to the Appeal Panel may be brought. The application for leave to appeal, and the appeal itself, must therefore be dismissed.
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########64
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY - Alleged indirect discrimination on the ground ofemployee's responsibilities for the care of children in the administrationofleave policies by employer - held no unlawful discrimination - appeal -statutory construction - disparate impact and comparatorgroups - reasonablenessin the circumstances - ability to comply - appeal dismissed. Anti-DiscriminationAct 1977, s 49T(1)(b). EQUAL OPPORTUNITY - Complaint of victimisation -Tribunal dismissed as not cognisable - appeal - whether statutory right oustedbyanother statute - appeal dismissed. Anti-Discrimination Act 1977, s 50;Police Act 1990, s 173. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY - Complaint of directdiscrimination in respect of refusal of a transfer application - held proven -appeal by employer- use of hypothetical comparator - causation and differentialtreatment - fact-finding - appeal dismissed. Anti-Discrimination Act 1977, s49T(1)(a).
The Appeal Panel has before it two appeals arising under the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977 (the ADA). 
Mr Wright, a serving police officer, is employed by the Commissioner of Police. In the years 2009 to 2012 he occupied the post of lock-up keeper at Hillston, a country town that is part of the northern sector of the Griffith Local Area Command, 110 kms north of Griffith. He was one of three officers assigned to Hillston. 
In this period he made four applications for leave and an application for transfer to a similar posting at Whitton or Yenda. The Commissioner's delegate refused, in part or wholly, the various leave applications, and refused the application for transfer. He lodged complaints under the ADA with the Anti-Discrimination Board alleging unlawful discrimination on the ground of his responsibilities as a carer, a subject dealt with in Part 4B of the Act. His evidence was that each of the leave applications and the transfer application had as its context his desire to provide care for his children under a shared parenting agreement. The children resided with their mother, from whom he was now divorced, at Goulburn. Goulburn is approximately 500 kms from Hillston. 
The Board was unable to conciliate the complaints and they were referred to the Tribunal. The referred complaints also included two complaints of victimisation in contravention of s 50 the ADA. He had absented himself from duty on the days for which leave was refused so as, on his evidence, to abide by the agreement with his wife in relation to taking care of the children. The Commissioner took disciplinary action pursuant to s 173 of the Police Act 1990, issuing a formal warning on two occasions. These actions gave rise to complaints of victimisation.
An employer is bound not to discriminate in employment in the ways declared unlawful by the ADA. In the present case, the allegation is that the employer, the Commissioner, discriminated against his employee, Mr Wright, on the ground of his responsibilities as a carer in denying him benefits of the kind set out in the Act (such as transfer) or subjecting him to any other employment detriment: see s 49V. 
Mr Wright's case before the Tribunal was that the Commissioner's management of the leave applications constituted indirect discrimination against him on the ground of his responsibilities as a carer. In the instance of the refusal of the transfer application, he alleged direct discrimination on the same ground.
On 10 March 2014, Mr Wright entered into a shared parenting agreement with his former wife in relation to the two children of the marriage. The provision of relevance to this case is cl 4, which provided, relevantly: 
Mr Wright, like other officers, was bound by the leave entitlement provisions of the Police Regulation 2008 (NSW), the Crown Employees (Police Officers - 2009) Award and the Griffith Local Area Command Business Rules (Revised 1 July 2010). Under Reg 96, the Commissioner is responsible for dealing with leave applications, and is obliged in dealing with such applications to 'have regard to the exigencies of the NSW Police Force, but as far as practicable to deal with the application in accordance with the wishes of the member'. In their evidence, the Commissioner's delegates referred to two circumstances, in particular, that had influenced their decisions responding to the leave requests: the need to have at least one officer rostered on each day at Hillston; and the need to observe any general embargoes on leave as applied at certain times of year, such as Easter and Christmas-New Year. 
In relation to the refusal of the transfer application, the ultimate decision-maker (Superintendent Rowan) gave evidence that he refused the transfer application because Mr Wright was still subject to a tenure requirement in his position at Hillston, and it would have been difficult to replace him at Hillston. The Tribunal found that there was a further reason, and it related to Mr Wright's responsibilities as a carer. The Commissioner's challenge to this finding is considered more fully later in these reasons. 
The key provision in this case is s 49T which deals in sub-section (1) (a) with what has come to be known as direct discrimination, and in sub-section (1)(b) with what has come to be known as indirect discrimination.
The Act also provides (s 4A) that 
The Tribunal dismissed Mr Wright's complaints of indirect discrimination. Mr Wright's appeal puts this order in issue.
The Tribunal upheld Mr Wright's direct discrimination complaint and awarded him $5000 in damages. The Commissioner's appeal puts these orders in issue.
In addition, as noted earlier, Mr Wright made two victimisation complaints, relating to formal disciplinary action taken by the Commissioner on two occasions after he absented him from duty in periods for which he had been refused leave. Section 50 is the applicable provision:
He contended that the warnings were unlawful acts of victimisation for having lodged complaints, in breach of s 50 of the Act. The Tribunal dismissed the victimisation complaints. Mr Wright's appeal challenges the decision in relation to the first victimisation complaint, but not the second. 
The right to appeal is confined by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 to a 'question of law'. The appeal may, with the leave of the Appeal Panel, extend to 'other grounds': s 80(2)(b). 
Both appeals are confined to questions of leave. Mr Wright seeks an order that the Tribunal orders adverse to him be set aside (with the exception of the order relating to the second victimisation complaint, which, as noted above, is not appealed), and the Commissioner seeks an order that the order adverse to him be set aside and the complaint dismissed.
It is convenient at this stage to set out the exact terms of the six complaints that remain in issue, the terms set out below being as agreed between the parties prior to the Tribunal hearing (the words in square brackets and italics are additions made by the Appeal Panel to assist understanding):  (1) In late 2010/early 2011, Mr Wright applied to the Commissioner for leave and was granted leave for the first week of the 2011 first term school holidays [i.e.11-17 April, the school holiday period was 11-26 April]. The applicant had responsibilities for caring for his children from 18 April 2011 to 29 April 2011, but he could not apply for that period because he was told [there was] a leave embargo imposed only on the Griffith Local Area Command [which covered Hillston]. [In 2011 Good Friday fell on 22 April and Easter Monday on 25 April, with Anzac Day on Tuesday 26 April.]
Mr Wright proceeded to absent himself from duty for the dates he was refused leave. That gave rise to the formal warnings that formed the background to complaint 5, and the background to the (no longer pressed) complaint 7. 
We will deal first with Mr Wright's appeal.
As noted above, Mr Wright challenged the conduct the subject of complaints (1), (2), (4) and (6) as unlawful under s 49T(1)(b) because it involved indirect discrimination on the ground of his responsibilities as a carer. 
In his submissions at first instance, the Commissioner contended that Mr Wright was not a person with responsibilities as a carer within the meaning of s 49S of the ADA, and therefore was not protected by its provisions. The Tribunal found that he did fall within the meaning of a person with responsibilities as a carer, as he had responsibilities as a father in accordance with the parenting agreement and any other agreement he makes with his former wife, to care for and support his two children. This finding is not in contest in the appeal. 
As we refer to this provision in the ADA later in these reasons for another purpose we will set it out in full here.
The complainant carries the onus of proof, and must establish each of four elements to the satisfaction of the Tribunal, i.e. 
The Nature of the Requirement. In respect of (a), sometimes the requirement will be one that forms part of the understood relationship between the parties, as reflected for example in the terms of a contract or an award. Sometimes the requirement will be less visible and less recognised by the parties. 
In this case the Tribunal found at para [30] that the requirement was 'to attend work in accordance with the roster that is posted or current on a particular day', and that the duty to attend work as rostered was a term or condition of employment with the NSW Police Force (see [41]). The Tribunal found that the particular days for this purpose were 11 April 2011 (in the case of complaint (1)), 16 April (complaint (2)); 14 April 2011 and 14 May 2011 (complaint (4)); and 26 October 2011 (complaint (6)). These findings were not put in issue by the notice of appeal.
The Tribunal's findings as to (b), (c) and (d) were negative to Mr Wright's case and are contested by the appeal, and it is said that in each instance the Tribunal committed errors of law. 
It will be apparent that for a complaint of indirect discrimination to succeed it must satisfy all four of the elements outlined at [21] above. This appeal must, therefore, fail if the appellant fails to succeed in relation to the Tribunal's decision as it relates to any one of the elements. 
The Tribunal summarised its conclusions as follows ([5]):
Counsel for the Commissioner submitted that, properly construed, the grounds of appeal relating to this aspect of the case did not raise any question of law. She submitted that the grounds were, in substance, criticisms of the fact-finding process of the Tribunal. She submitted that the appeal should therefore be declared incompetent and dismissed.
We will not set out the text of Mr Wright's notice of appeal verbatim. The substantive grounds relating to the Tribunal's findings in relation to the indirect discrimination complaints are the subject of para 2 of the notice of appeal. We will extract the main passages:
In responding to this submission, we have had regard to the totality of the material now before the Appeal Panel including the written and oral submissions. 
The Commissioner submitted that each of the findings made by the Tribunal were determinations of fact. Clearly all of the determinations had a significant factual component. As to identification of the groups to be compared for the purpose of the disparate impact test, Mr Wright submits that the Tribunal's construction of the relevant words in s 49T(1) was unduly narrow. Similarly in relation to the question of compliance, Mr Wright's submission is that the Tribunal wrongly imported a test of reasonableness when that was not contemplated by the terms of the provision in relation to this point, and finally in relation to the general consideration of the reasonableness of the requirement the Tribunal did not have regard to various matters that it should have had regard to. These challenges all raise matters that can be pressed as questions of law (statutory construction in the first two instances) and the law that governs the proper exercise of a legal discretion (in the final instance). We will proceed to deal with the appeal. 
Complaints (1) and (2) refer to different applications, but relate to the same overall period, the first term school holidays of 2011.
The first leave application was made in a timely way, and was granted on 8 November 2010. We have some difficulty in understanding how complaint (1) fell for consideration as an instance of indirect discrimination. In its reasons the Tribunal found that he nominated the week because he was aware that the embargo would apply to the second week. The Tribunal found that he did not realise that he had not told his former wife that he had that week as approved leave. He only learnt on 27 March 2011 that she had assumed he had leave for the second week, and had made different plans for the children for the first week. 
That led him on 28 March 2011 to withdraw his application for leave for the first week and substitute an application for leave for the second week. The Commissioner's treatment of this, the second, application is the subject of complaint (2). He was informed on 10 April 2011 that his application had been refused in part because of a leave embargo. The roster that issued on 11 April required him to work Monday 18 to Easter Thursday 21 April, and from Wednesday 27 April to Friday 29 April 2011. He was granted leave for the core days of the Easter long weekend, Friday 22-Monday 25 and Anzac Day, the 26th, the Commissioner's evidence being that he was allowed 'rest or recurrent leave' for those days. 
In our view, complaint (1) has no proper foundation. The relevant leave application was in fact granted, so that outcome can not, we consider, found a justiciable issue. Alternatively, once the application was 'withdrawn' by Mr Wright on 11 April, it became non-justiciable for that reason. For that reason, the appeal in relation to complaint (1) is dismissed. 
We will confine our further consideration of the appeal in this area to complaints (2), (4) and (6).
The third leave application, the subject of complaint (4), was made in a timely way. Mr Wright had applied early in January 2011 for three rostered days off for the period 20-22 May 2011, the fourth weekend of the month, and the weekend in the month he had agreed to take the children. The roster that came out on 11 April 2011 showed him rostered on for those three days. He tried to swap shifts with other officers but was unsuccessful. He then applied on 13 May 2011 for extended leave for that period. He received a reply on 17 May 2011, and was granted Friday 20 May, but not for Saturday 21 May or Sunday 22 May. He said in evidence that he could not find anyone to care for his children that weekend, and therefore did not attend work, and stayed with his children in Yass. 
The fourth leave application, the subject of complaint (6), was also made in a timely way. On 19 August 2011 he applied for recreation leave from 26 December 2011 to 15 January 2012. The application was refused, applying a leave embargo policy applicable to that period of the year. The Tribunal's reasons detail his attempts to overcome the difficulty he now faced in not being able to care for the children in the period agreed with his wife. He was unable to overcome the difficulty, did not attend for work for that period, and returned to Hillston on 17 January 2012. 
The Tribunal held as a matter of construction of s 49T(1)(b) that the base groups or pools that were to be compared were 'those with carer's responsibilities' and 'those without carer's responsibilities'. The effect was that the first pool included anyone in the Police Force with carer's responsibilities of any of the types to which the definition in s 49S is directed, and the second pool was anyone who did not have carer responsibilities of any of the types listed there. The Tribunal drew this conclusion from the contrasting terms used in the sub-section - an aggrieved person was a person 'having responsibilities as a carer' and their treatment was to be compared with 'persons who do not have such responsibilities'. 
Mr Wright's submission was that his ability to succeed in relation to the next two elements of s 49T(1)(b) the 'reasonableness' element and the ' inability to comply' element (the issues addressed by grounds 2(b) and 2(c) of his notice of appeal) depended significantly on how the Tribunal chose to formulate the comparator groups, and that it was wrong to make the comparator groups so global - all carers with any of the responsibilities to which s 49S refers on the one hand, and everyone else on the other hand.
The case law shows that the characterisation of the two groups to be compared is often a complex aspect of the case, and the ultimate outcome of the case may turn significantly, as Mr Wright suggests, on the choice made by the Tribunal as to the composition of the base groups. Australian Iron & Steel Pty Ltd v Banovic [1989] HCA 56;  (1989) 168 CLR 165 (Banovic) is a striking example of the this point. Women ironworkers complained of indirect discrimination in relation to the impact on them of a retrenchment policy that was neutral on its face, in that it was applied first to those workers who had been most recently employed ('last on, first off'). Women who had been retrenched under the policy complained of indirect discrimination on the ground of their sex, in that a substantially higher proportion of men were able to comply with the policy, and avoid retrenchment.
The respondent employer submitted that the relevant base comparisons were between all males employed as ironworkers and all females employed as ironworkers. The Court accepted that such a comparison would mask the differential impact of which the women complained. There were very few long term women workers in the workforce, because historically it had been very difficult for women to obtain work as ironworkers due to screening criteria (e.g. weight bearing capacity) that women were less likely to meet. Policies of this kind had been abandoned in mid-1980. The retrenchment announcement had been made in October 1982, after a downturn in the steel industry. The Court (Deane, Dawson, Gaudron JJ; Brennan CJ, McHugh J dissenting) upheld the primary tribunal's orders. The majority defined the 'requirement or condition' for continued employment as being that the employee had to have been employed prior to 30 September 1980. The detriment, risk of dismissal, applied to persons employed after that date. The majority held that the appropriate comparison was one that compared men and women who had been recruited as from that date. 
Once the male pool was defined in that way, it became clear that past practices had resulted in there being proportionately far more women adversely affected by the retrenchment policy than their overall proportion in the workforce. (Women comprised 15% of the post-September 1980 group as compared to 1% of workers in the pre-September 1980 group.)
Section 24(3)(a) of the ADA, as formulated at the time of Banovic, commenced with the words 'A person discriminates against another on the ground of his sex if he requires the other person to comply with a requirement or condition - (a) with which a substantially higher proportion of persons of the opposite sex to the sex of the other person comply or are able to comply'. In this case parallel language is used, and s 49T(1) substitutes for 'his sex', 'the aggrieved person's responsibilities as a carer'. 
As noted earlier, in the present case the Tribunal held that the comparison, for the purpose of s 49T(1)(b) was to be made between people 'with carer responsibilities' and those who did not have carer responsibilities. The Tribunal did not further qualify the comparator groups, say, for example into a comparison of those with child care responsibilities and those without child care responsibilities, or say those who are carers of children as sole parents, and those that are carers of children as parents in a dual relationship and a supportive partner. 
Mr Wright's submission, in effect, is that it is not sufficient to chose to compare anyone with carer responsibilities against all people without carer responsibilities. The true comparison is between, basically, sole parents with carer's responsibilities and others with carer's responsibilities who are not sole parents. His case is that many of the members of the Police Force with child care responsibilities would be in settings where a spouse or partner may be able to carry the load on the days they are rostered for service. Sole parents, in his submission, face greater difficulty in making other arrangements. Employers should, he argues adopt leave policies that respect their situation, and noted that sole parents may, if they do not meet their obligations under parenting agreements, be at risk of reduction of their care rights. 
The Tribunal drew support for its construction from the different drafting of the disability discrimination provisions of the ADA which it saw as permitting a more refined comparison in that area because of its use of different terminology. The relevant provision (s 49B(1)(b)) allowed for a comparison to be made between people with a disability and people 'who do not have that disability' (emphasis added), 'meaning the aggrieved person's disability' - [83].
It will be seen that the meaning given to 'carer' in s 49S (set out earlier in these reasons) is not expressed in a global way. It refers to various kinds of care relationships. A distinction is drawn between care relationships with children (see categories (a) and (b)) and ones with other immediate members of the family ((c)). 
Mr Wright submitted that the word 'such' in the provision under notice here (s 49T(1)(b)) played the same rule as the word 'that' in the disability discrimination provision that the Tribunal saw as having a narrowing effect. 
Mr Wright's submissions also referred in support to the terms of s 49U, the unjustifiable hardship provision, and its reference to the 'relevant responsibilities' of the carer. Section 49U provides:
We agree with Mr Wright's submission that the disability discrimination provisions and the carer responsibilities discrimination provisions are substantially similar. We doubt that the Parliament intended that in indirect discrimination cases there would be a greater freedom to the Tribunal to narrow the comparator categories in disability cases as compared to carer responsibilities cases. 
We think Banovic itself illustrates a situation where the Court (by majority) was prepared to move away from a bald comparison of all female workers affected by the retrenchment policy and all male ironworkers affected by the retrenchment policy, and confine the comparison to male employees and female employees with a particular characteristic, in that instance employment after the date when the screening policies that had so heavily disfavoured female employment had been abandoned. 
Section 23(3) of the ADA provided at that time:
That some flexibility may be brought to the task of identifying the groups to be compared is acknowledged, we consider, in the following passage from the joint judgment of Deane and Gaudron JJ in Banovic (at CLR pp 178-9).
In our view, the approach adopted in Banovic is one that allows for more fine-grained identification of the comparator groups or pools than simply confining them to the primary language of the statute.
In our view, the task of the Tribunal is to adopt comparator categories that are of sufficient breadth to enable an effective comparison to be made and constitute pools that are credible and recognisable for those engaged in administration. This approach is consistent, as we see it, with the systemic character of indirect discrimination cases. 
We think it is permissible, having regard to the protective purpose of these provisions, and the delineation of different types of carer responsibility situations in s 49V, to characterise the groups more precisely than the Tribunal chose to do. We consider that the Tribunal was not barred by law from adopting more specific comparator categories than it chose to do. We do not think that the legislation mandates, as the Tribunal's reasons would appear to suggest, that only comparison allowed is between all persons with care responsibilities and all those without care responsibilities. It is permissible, we consider, to define the first group in narrower terms, having regard to the context and circumstances of the case. 
The Tribunal did go on to consider Mr Wright's submissions as to the characterisation of the two pools. 
The more extreme of his two proposals was that it was open to compare officers in Hillston with child care responsibilities and those without such responsibilities. This would have produced the absurd result of a pool of one, on the one side, and, on the other side, a pool of two. In our view the indirect discrimination provisions are not directed to microscopic comparisons of this kind, and that is reflected in words such as a 'substantially higher proportion'. 
The Tribunal also considered his other proposal, which it described as the third option. Mr Wright suggested that the comparator groups might be all those with carer responsibilities of a particular kind or extent (e.g. single parents) and those without those kinds of carer's responsibilities (i.e. people who are not single parents but who may have other kinds of carer's responsibilities). Had this case proceeded, it would, as the Tribunal noted have met with insuperable difficulties. Mr Wright had not adduced any evidence going to the extent of compliance of single parent officers versus, say, dual parent officers. 
Accordingly, if an approach that invested the carer comparison with additional characteristics such as sole parent status had been adopted, it would not, as we see it, have succeeded on the evidence before the Tribunal. There was insufficient evidence to make a comparison. 
The grounds of appeal also criticised the Tribunal for its ruling that it was not open to it in analysing the case on this basis to take 'judicial notice' of certain matters and find them as facts, in this instance the difficulties that a sole parent has in providing care as distinct from one who has a supportive partner. We will not deal with this point at length. In our view this is a matter that should be the subject of evidence, and we agree with the reservations expressed in another context on lightly taking judicial notice of matters: see Norrie v NSW Registrar of Births Deaths and Marriages [2013] NSWCA 145 at  [94]- [95] per Beazley ACJ (reversed in the High Court but not on this aspect, NSW Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages v Norrie [2014] HCA 11). 
The next two grounds put in issue the Tribunal's reasons in relation the question of whether the requirement was not reasonable having regard to the circumstances of the case (Ground 2(c)), and the Tribunal's conclusion as to whether the requirement is one that the aggrieved person is not able to comply (Ground 2(b)). 
On their face these are both inquiries of fact based on the evidence; and can not easily be disturbed on error of law grounds. The Tribunal dealt with the question of ability to comply with the requirement at some length at [36]-[75] of its reasons, and the question of whether the requirement was reasonable at [96]-[102] of its reasons. Much of its consideration of the evidence is found in the part dealing with ability to comply, and forms a background to its reasons in relation to reasonableness. 
In his written and oral submissions, though not squarely in the notice of appeal, Mr Wright submitted that the Tribunal failed in its duty to give adequate reasons. That the Tribunal has a duty to give adequate reasons is not in issue, and we accept the account of that duty given in the case cited by Mr Wright - AAD v NSW Trustee and Guardian & ors [2011] NSWADTAP 18 at  [13] ff. 
In relation to the issue of whether the Tribunal properly considered the issue of whether the requirement was reasonable in the circumstances, the submission is that the Tribunal did not consider all the 'relevant facts'. The Tribunal, it is said, omitted to consider the particular circumstances of Mr Wright, and only had regard to the evidence as to operational matters presented on behalf of the Commissioner. The submission is that the circumstances that the Tribunal should have considered extended to 'both the applicant's and the respondent's circumstances in the particular contexts of each of the complaints of discrimination'. The submissions continue: 'a determination of the reasonableness of, for example, the respondent's rules, cannot be considered on a 'global' basis (i.e. how they operate in general, or expected to operate in general) because those rules apply differently and have different outcomes depending on the location of the station, the work allocated to that station, the positions allocated to that station and the number of individuals actually employed in the positions.'
The submissions continue by referring to other particulars that need to be considered, and refer, for example, to the specific steps taken by the Police Force to address requests of Mr Wright's kind, the ability of Mr Wright to make alternative child care arrangements if leave is not granted, and the way the rules were implemented in his case. He also submitted that the Tribunal should have taken account of the fact that the roster decisions made in relation to him were not consistent with and did not reflect the flexible approach seen in the provisions of the NSW Police Carers' Responsibilities Guidelines. Similar criticisms were made in relation to the way the Tribunal approached the issue of whether Mr Wright was able to comply with the requirement. 
We have referred earlier in these reasons to some aspects of the administration of leave applications, especially the application of embargoes to certain periods of they year, which in turn coincide with school holiday periods (Easter, Christmas-New Year). In addition to the embargo rule, the Griffith LAC policy also had a rule affecting the Hillston/Northern Cluster that there was to 'only one officer off at a time'. In evidence, Inspector Dunlop, the duty officer for human resources, referred to the way difficulties were resolved in relation to the one-officer rule. It was left to the officers to negotiate among themselves if they wished to vary the roster. These, clearly, are matters of significance in relation to the question of the reasonableness of the requirement (to work on days rostered). 
In our view, the Tribunal satisfactorily examined the circumstances in relation to its conclusion that the requirement was one necessary to the operation of the Police Force in the Griffith LAC area (i.e. duty to work as rostered). This is the first step in the analysis of reasonableness to which Brennan J (dissenting as to the result, but not on this issue) referred in Waters v Public Transport Commission [1991] HCA 49;  (1991) 173 CLR 349 at 378. The next step is the one to which Bowen CJ and Gummow J refer in Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade v Styles [1989] FCA 342;  (1989) 23 FCR 251 at 263 (see Tribunal's reasons at 96]). Their Honours said there: 'The criterion is an objective one, which requires the court to weigh the nature and extent of the discriminatory effect, on the one hand, against the reason advanced in favour of the requirement or condition on the other. All the circumstances of the case must be taken into account.'
In our view, a fair reading of the entirety of the reasons of the Tribunal as they relate to indirect discrimination (i.e. the general introduction at [1]-[8] plus the section headed 'Indirect Discrimination' at [9]-[102]) shows that the Tribunal was aware of, and had regard to, the various matters that Mr Wright considers relevant to his case such as the Police Carers' Responsibilities Guidelines, the timing of requests and the early application (19 August 2011) for leave for the Christmas/New Year period of 2011/2012. We do not interpret the statement of Bowen CJ and Gummow J in Styles as going so far as to require a tribunal to mechanically list all the circumstances of the case in the course of its decision. The question for the Appeal Panel is whether, on a fair reading of the decision as a whole, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that all relevant circumstances were taken into account, even if they were not all itemised in the way contended by the appellant in this case. 
In our view, the reasons were not inadequate. Nor did they infringe the standards governing the making of discretionary evaluations, as outlined in the line of cases applying the principles laid down in House v R [1936] HCA 40;  (1936) 55 CLR 499. 
Though it is not essential that we do so, given our conclusion, above, in relation to Ground of Appeal 2(c), we will proceed to deal with Ground 2(b). Mr Wright challenges the Tribunal's finding that the requirement was not one 'with which the aggrieved person does not or is not able to comply'. 
The Tribunal said at [37]-[38]:
Mr Wright's submission is that the words of s 49T(1)(b) should have been liberally construed, mindful of the remedial objectives of anti-discrimination legislation, and, had that occurred, the Tribunal would found that he did not or was not able to comply with the requirement, on either of the following bases:
In our view this approach distracts attention from the systemic character and purpose of an indirect discrimination provision. In an indirect discrimination claim the complainant does not allege that he or she was the subject of an individualised act of unlawful discrimination. The contention is that the complainant has been wronged by the way a system of administration works because (unintentionally) it has a feature which results in a significant bias against persons who like him share the same protected attribute. The 'systemic character', as we have called it, of indirect discrimination provisions must influence the approach to the construction of the specific elements of the provision.
The Tribunal, we consider, took a purposive approach of the kind we favour. It did not interpret the relevant words of s 49T(1)(b) 'with which the aggrieved person does not ... comply', or, 'the aggrieved person ... is not able to comply' as referring to his personal action in choosing not to comply with the requirement to attend for work. The Tribunal approached the two questions by asking whether, objectively, he could not comply or was not able to comply. The question is not resolved simply by reference to the single factor of the subjective choice made by the complainant, as Mr Wright's submissions imply. We agree with the final sentence of para [38] of the Tribunal's reasons, set out above. 
This is, we consider, clearly not a case to which the first possibility applies. The case is one about whether the complainant in the circumstances is 'not able to comply'. The Tribunal can examine, as it did, the circumstances of the case and proceed to make a finding of fact. We agree with the Commissioner's submission that no question of law arises as to its findings on this point.
Accordingly the appeal as it relates to complaints (1), (2), (4) and (6) is dismissed.
The Victimisation Complaints. We have set out the text of s 50 earlier in these reasons.
Tribunal's reasons in summary. The Tribunal summarised its conclusions in respect of two victimisation complaints as follows:
Complaint (5), which remains in issue, has as its background his conduct after the third leave application was refused (the subject of complaint (4)). He decided not to comply with the requirement that he go to work on 21-22 May 2011. On 16 June 2011 he received a warning notice from the Commissioner in relation to his conduct. 
The Tribunal accepted the Commissioner's submission that it was not entitled to examine this action as it was 'non-reviewable'. The Commissioner relied on s 173(1) of the Police Act 1990, read in conjunction with Schedule 1, i.e.: 
The Tribunal referred to Reid-Frost v Industrial Relations Commission of New South Wales [2013] NSWCA 161 (23 April 2013). In that case the Commissioner had exercised his power to 'remove' an officer from the force. The officer exercised her right to have the decision reviewed by the Industrial Relations Commission (IRC). Ultimately the IRC affirmed the Commissioner's decision. She applied for judicial review on a number of grounds, one being that it was wrong of the primary judge (Boland P) to take into account as part of her employment history the issuance to her of a warning notice by the Commissioner. 
She submitted that this was wrong as s 173(9)(a) prevents the IRC from considering any non-reviewable action, which is defined to include a warning notice. Macfarlan JA (McColl JA agreeing) ruled:
The Tribunal in this case held that it would be infringing the boundary set by s 173(9)(a) if it embarked on an examination of the reasons for the issuance of the warning notice. 
In support of this conclusion, the Commissioner at the appeal hearing drew attention a High Court decision that preceded Reid-Frost by two months, Commissioner of Police v Eaton [2013] HCA 2 (8 February 2013). 
In that case the question was whether the IRC had power to review a decision by the Commissioner to dismiss a probationary constable 'at any time without giving any reason' (Police Act, s 80(3)). The High Court (Gageler J dissenting) set aside a Court of Appeal decision that the IRC did have power to review the decision, and restored the decision of the IRC that it did not have such a jurisdiction. 
The Commissioner contended that properly construed this power was not amenable to review by the IRC in the exercise of its general jurisdiction to hear claims by employees of unjust dismissal and the provision in the Police Act (the IRC had held it did not). The Commissioner relied on the observations in the reasons of the Court going to the way provisions in different statutes that may not be in harmony should be construed and applied. 
We agree with the Tribunal's conclusion. In this case the decision to issue the warning notice is cited as the major detriment (as we understand Mr Wright's case he also cites the refusal to grant him leave as a further detriment). In Reid-Frost the IRC simply took note of the warning notice as part of an employment history. It did not proceed to evaluate the justification or otherwise for the warning notice. Macfarlan JA interpreted 'consider' in s 173(9)(a) to connote some form of serious examination of the particulars and merits of the non-reviewable action. 
In our view the Tribunal was right to see itself as being called on to undertake such a serious examination. Section 173(9)(a) operates as a fetter on the ability of police officers effectively to put in issue as victimisation the exercise by the Commissioner of certain of his disciplinary powers. It may be that, as contended by Mr Wright, a construction could be adopted that allowed both sets of provisions to operate harmoniously, perhaps in the way commended by Gageler J (in dissent) in Eaton. However in our view the balance of authority (Macfarlan JA in Reid-Frost and the majority in Eaton) favours the approach adopted by the Tribunal. 
The appeal as it relates to the victimisation complaint is dismissed.
The Commissioner's appeal challenges the Tribunal's decision to uphold Complaint (3), the complaint of direct discrimination in respect of the refusal of the transfer application, and to award Mr Wright $5000 in damages. 
The appeal is a question of law appeal, and there is no application for leave to extend it to 'other grounds'. The order sought is dismissal of the complaint. 
As filed, the appeal had seven grounds. Grounds 1 and 2 were not pressed at hearing. Grounds 3, 4 and 5 all relate to the Tribunal's construction of s 49T(1)(a), the direct discrimination provision. Grounds 6 and 7 are inter-related and concern the Tribunal's treatment of the evidence of the ultimate decision-maker in relation to the transfer application, Superintendent Rowan.
Factual Background. On or about 1 April 2011 Griffith LAC circulated two notices, one inviting applications from constables and senior constables to perform the role of lock up keeper at Yenda, and the other a similar notice in relation to Whitton. Yenda is about 16km from Griffith and Whitton is midway between Griffith and Leeton (about 30km from each). Yenda and Whitton are each about 350km from Goulburn. 
The closing date for applications was 9 April 2011. Mr Wright, who, as previously noted, was the lock up keeper at Hillston, applied for each position. He referred in his application to the value to him in assisting him with his care responsibilities for his children of an appointment closer to Goulburn as both of these locations allowed. The notices advised that inquiries in the first instance should be directed to Inspector Gordon Dunlop, duty officer, Griffith LAC. On 27 April 2014 Inspector Dunlop telephoned and informed him that his application had been unsuccessful. In his affidavit (filed 4 January 2013), Mr Wright swore:
At [162] of its reasons the Tribunal accepted Mr Wright's account of this conversation. Inspector Dunlop had been a member of the selection committee. Its decision took the form of a recommendation to the Local Area Commander Superintendent Michael Rowan who made the ultimate decision.
In his affidavit (filed 4 March 2013), Supt Rowan stated that his decision not to appoint Mr Wright to either of the positions was:
Supt Rowan then went on to explain at some length the importance of the tenure policy and the way it is administered. The policy, in essence, requires posts to be filled for minimum time periods (for example, three years in the case of Hillston), the aim being to ensure an appropriate spread of the police presence across the whole State. Mr Wright had taken up his position at Hillston in January 2009 and the three years' tenure applying to his position had yet to expire. Supt Rowan noted that Mr Wright had received a one-off tenure payment ($5000) for going to Hillston as it was classified as a 'remote location'. He referred to an undated file note (said to be contemporaneous) in which he confirmed that tenure was his sole consideration. In the note he acknowledged that the selection committee had been aware of Mr Wright's concern that a transfer would assist his personal situation.
In its reasons the Tribunal divided the matters to be proven into four elements, of which two are not put in issue by the appeal (i.e. it is not disputed that he had carer's responsibilities at the time of the application, and that in having his application denied he was subject to a detriment with in the meaning of the Act). The Tribunal's approach to the other two elements ('differential treatment' and 'causation') remains in dispute. 
The Tribunal dealt with the 'differential treatment' element in this way. 
The Tribunal concluded its discussion under 'causation' as follows:
Each of Grounds 3 to 5 goes to the Tribunal's construction of s 49T(1)(a).
The Commissioner submits that the Tribunal erred in not using an actual comparator, and wrongly relied only on a hypothetical comparator (ground 3), to similar effect that it erred in failing to dismiss the appellant's claim when he had put forward no evidence of an actual comparator (ground 4) by finding that the two limbs (less favourable treatment and causation) merge where there is no actual comparator (ground 5) and by misconstruing the expression 'on the ground of' in s 49T(1)(a) by confusing a real, genuine, true reason for the Commissioner's action with matters that might have been mentioned or noted in the course of the decision.
On its face, s 49T(1)(a) allows the Tribunal to have regard to an actual comparator ('treats') or a hypothetical comparator ('would treat'). The Commissioner's contention (ground 3) is that 'it was not open to the Tribunal to use hypothetical person in the particular circumstances of the claim'. 
This case is no different in its basic parameters to many anti-discrimination cases. The complainant has suffered a detriment, the complaint possesses a protected attribute, the critical debate then is whether the impugned conduct could be said to be 'on the ground of' the protected attribute (and it need not be the main ground, it is enough that it is a ground (s 4A)) and the complainant has been treated less favourably than someone (actual or hypothetical) without the protected attribute. 
The Commissioner's key difficulty, as we see it, is that there was a negative finding on causation. The Tribunal did not accept that the ultimate decision maker, Supt Rowan, made his decision in relation to Mr Wright's transfer applications solely by reference to the tenure policy. The Tribunal, after hearing Supt Rowan's answers in cross-examination, considered that Mr Wright's carer status was a factor. 
In many cases actual differential treatment may be able to be demonstrated, for example there were six qualified applicants for a position, three men and three women, but the three women were all successful. But it may transpire on closer examination that that the three women all satisfied the selection criteria to a greater degree, and were properly regarded as the best three applicants. In this case, it was not clear whether there were other applicants for transfer, and in any event no transfer was approved. In a case such as this the complainant will have difficulty in identifying an actual comparator. It is open to the complainant instead to rely on a hypothetical comparison. 
We do not consider that the decision in Purvis v State of New South Wales [2003] HCA 62 mandates the approach for which the Commissioner contends. That was a case of greater complexity than the present. A child with a disability that gave rise, on occasions, to uncontrolled aggressive behaviour had been expelled by the principal. The higher courts accepted that the principal's action was for the sole and genuine reason of concern for the welfare and safety of the other children in the school. The primary debate in the case centred on how the differential treatment comparison was to be constructed. The High Court held (by majority) that it was not appropriate to make the comparison between a child with the disability (both the underlying condition and the behavioural manifestations) and a child possessed on no disability which extended to absence of the behavioural manifestations. The proper comparison was with a child who is not disabled but engages in the same behaviour. 
In the present case the Tribunal compared Mr Wright's situation with that of a person without carer's responsibility, in the context of this case that would be a person with no parental child care responsibilities . In our view, the Tribunal did not commit the error to which para [223] the joint judgment of Gummow, Hayne & Heydon JJ speaks:
This is not a case where a 'wholly hypothetical' set of circumstances was erected by the Tribunal. The Tribunal at [157] sought to invest its comparison with similar characteristics to those under notice in the case. The difficulty to which the High Court was referring in this passage was the possibility that by making the uncontrolled behavioural manifestations a component of the first person's disability those manifestations would be excluded from the assessment of the 'circumstances' surrounding the second person's (the comparator's) situation. Gummow, Hayne & Heydon JJ concluded at [225] that unlawful conduct arose:
Grounds 3 and 4 are rejected. 
Ground 5 raises a somewhat different point. It puts in issue the following statement in para [158] that:
In this comment the Tribunal is referring to a logical conundrum that arises in dealing with direct discrimination complaints. If a proscribed consideration is a factor in the decision making process then it will also supply the differential treatment factor for the comparison involving the same or similar circumstances. 
The Tribunal did not simply deal with the differential treatment issue in the way that might be seen as suggested at [158]. The key passage appears at [157] especially the last sentence. At [157] the Tribunal sought to invest the comparison with circumstances not materially different to the situation that occurred. On the question of special needs the first person had the exact situation of Mr Wright while the second person, the comparator, had the variation that he/she was not a person with parental child care responsibilities but a person with some other kind of 'personal needs'. In our view, the Tribunal did seek to match the circumstances as closely as possible. 
In our view, the same occurred in Purvis. The comparison was made between a child with the disability of the aggrieved person (including the behavioural manifestations) and a child with no disability but exhibiting similar behavioural manifestations. The lower courts had been satisfied that the principal would have acted the same way in each case. Critical to that assessment, as we see it, was the separate finding that the principal's sole and genuine reason for acting as he did was the welfare and safety of other children. In this case the Tribunal was not satisfied that fair application of the tenure policy was the sole and genuine reason for the decision maker acting as he did in this case. 
We do not consider it necessary to explore, one, the detail of the speeches of their Lordships in Shamoon, or, two, the related UK case law, or, three, the way this point has been repeated in tribunal decisions since 2008, as sought by the Commissioner. In our view, the Tribunal is making a self-evident point, and is not transporting into Australian anti-discrimination law a perspective that derives from the different statutory approach taken in the UK law. There will be cases where once the question is answered as to the factors that led to the conduct in issue, the answer to the differential treatment question will be obvious. There will be other cases where the conduct appears, on its face, to be discriminatory, but a closer exploration reveals that the only factors taken into account were lawful ones, and therefore the circumstances more fully understood lead to the differential treatment test not being satisfied.
The use of the word 'merge' ought, perhaps, be avoided, in explaining this point. There are two separate matters (causation, and differential treatment), but often the finding in relation to causation will mean that only one answer can be given on differential treatment. 
Ground 5 is rejected.
In ground 6, the Commissioner submits that the Tribunal erred in construing the expression 'on the ground of' by confusing a real, genuine, true reason for the Commissioner's action with matters that might have been mentioned or noted in the course of making the decision. The ground refers to para [169] and the submissions refer in addition to [172]. Paragraph [172] is the conclusion to the Tribunal's consideration of Supt Rowan's evidence, para [169] being part of that consideration. 
In Ground 7 the Commissioner submits that the Tribunal erred at [169], [170] and [171] of the decision by misstating the evidence given by Supt Rowan at the hearing on 27 May 2013 and thereby leading itself into error in relying on 'facts' which were not part of the evidence before the Tribunal.
It will be seen that both these grounds attack the Tribunal's findings as to matters of fact. They are couched in the language of questions of law ('erred in construing', Ground 6) and, in essence, reliance on non-existent facts, or no evidence (Ground 7). 
We will set out the paragraphs of the reasons to which these two grounds refer, together with the passage from [164] to [168] which provides context.
In Ground 6 the Commissioner argued that it was wrong to take any account of Insp Dunlap's recommendation in ascertaining the reason for Supt Rowan's decision. This is too linear. Orthodox administration of complex organisations, as the Police Force clearly is, involves the use of delegated authority and the making of decisions by delegates based on advice and recommendations. It would be unrealistic were a tribunal to confine its inquiry into the reasons for a decision solely to the evidence given by the ultimate decision maker in a structure where advice has been tendered and the giver of the advice has had direct contact with the applicant for the decision. 
The Tribunal introduced its discussion of this aspect of the case with the following statement:
Counsel for both parties agreed that the decision in Purvis did not stand for the proposition set out. Counsel for Mr Wright agreed with the Commissioner's submission that none of the judges in Purvis referred to the need for 'genuine' reasons, and the judges who referred to the need for 'real' reasons or 'true' reasons were dissenting. Counsel for Mr Wright agreed with the Commissioner's submission that the majority (Gummow, Hayne & Heydon JJ) in Purvis addressed the causation element of direct discrimination as follows:
The provision under notice was a Commonwealth one, the words of connection in the NSW Act under notice here are 'on the ground of', but both parties, and we agree, accepted that the observations in Purvis applied equally to that expression.
The Commissioner also submits that not only was the Tribunal wrong to describe its task as the ascertainment of the 'true', 'real' or 'genuine' reason for the conduct but it was wrong to describe the object of the conduct as 'treatment' when the words used in paragraph (a) of s 49T(1) are 'treats the aggrieved person less favourably than in the same circumstances [etc]' (our emphasis). In our view, it is clear from the reasons read as a whole that the word 'treatment' was simply being used for conciseness and the Tribunal understood that it was engaged in a comparative exercise. 
The key point made by the High Court is that 'the central question will always be - why was the aggrieved person treated as he or she was'. In our view the analysis engaged in by the Tribunal at [164] ff answered the 'why' question. It is not necessary in this area of the law that the unlawful reason be the only or dominant reason for the impugned conduct. It need merely be one of the reasons: s 4A. While the Tribunal erred in its statement of the law, the subsequent findings of fact satisfied the test stated at para [234] of Purvis. 
In relation to ground 7, the Commissioner's submissions at pp 18-20 set out the relevant cross examination of 27 May 2013. We have reviewed the record. In our view, para [171] is a reasonable synthesis of Supt Rowan's answers. Ground 7 is no more than an attack on the fact-finding process of the Tribunal. We will not reiterate the narrow circumstances in which the fact-finding process can be attacked on error of law grounds. Ground 7 is rejected. 
The Commissioner's appeal is dismissed. 
Both parties foreshadowed possible applications for costs, depending on the outcome of the appeal. We make the following directions in that regard, covering both appeals dealt with by these reasons:
############# I'm default separator ##########65
NSW CIVIL AND ADMINISTRASTIVE TRIBUNAL - Consumer and Commercial Division -construction of building contract - obligation to makeprogress payments -question of law
Mr Megerditchian, who we will refer to as the owner, has appealed against a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal that he pay a building company, Kurmond Homes Pty Ltd, (the builder) $125,704.00. The main issue in the appeal is whether the contract, which was for the construction of two duplex residences, should be construed as requiring the owner to make progress payments only when the particular stage of construction has been totally completed or if that obligation arises when the stage has been substantially completed. 
Clause 15.3 of the contract obliges the builder to give the owner "a written claim for a progress payment for substantial completion of each stage". In accordance with cl 15.5, the owner must pay a progress claim within 5 working days of the builder giving the claim. The table, which is part of the contract, sets out the stages and the amounts to be paid "on completion" of the relevant stage. The Tribunal concluded that the owner is liable to pay progress payments on substantial completion of the relevant stage, not on total or final completion of that stage. For the reasons which we give below we agree with that conclusion although not with the Tribunal's reasons. 
The grounds of appeal raise questions of law about which the owner has the right to appeal: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 80(2).
The contract, dated 20 September 2010, is governed by the Home Building Act 1989 (NSW). Despite the fact that it was unsigned, there was no dispute that the parties had agreed to be bound by it. 
The contract comprises the general conditions in Schedules 1 to 5, any special conditions, the plans and the specifications. Item 14 to Schedule 1 of the contract also identifies the "Plans, Tender, HIA Certificate, Insurances and HIA Building Guide" as "other contract documents". 
The builder's obligation under cl 2.1 is to "carry out and complete the building works in accordance with this contract". The time for doing so is within the contract period of 26 weeks. The works must be practically complete within that time and defects notified by the owner that do not affect practical completion are to be rectified later. "Practical completion" is defined to mean:
Pursuant to cl 3.1 the owner "must pay the contract price... that becomes payable under this contract in the manner and at the times stated in this contract." 
Clause 15 sets out the builder's and the owner's obligations in relation to claiming and paying progress payments. Critical to this appeal is the builder's obligation in cl 15.3 to give the owner a written claim for a progress payment on "substantial completion" of each stage. 
"Stage" is defined in cl 1 to mean "any of the stages described in Schedule 2" of the contract. Schedule 2 is headed "Progress Payments". It contains the following information directly underneath that heading:
Underneath this information are five suggested stages numbered (a) to (e). The parties have not completed the amounts to be paid or the percentage of the total agreed amounts next to these suggested stages. Instead, they have written at (f) "Refer to Tender". The following page of the contract is headed "Progress Payments Schedule". Underneath that heading, the following information is written, "If you do not use the Schedule on page 4 (that is the suggested schedule on the previous page of the contract) then set out the stages for progress claims below." (Words in brackets added.) Instead of completing this table, which contains the headings "Stage", "Percentage" and "Amount", the parties have again written "Refer to Tender." 
The second last page of the contract also headed "Progress Payment Schedule", is a table that was part of the tender document. It states that, "On acceptance of tender agreed Schedule of progress payments to be made to the Builder." This is the table that the parties have agreed will comprise the stages for progress payments, the amounts of those payments and the percentage of the total agreed amount. We will refer to this document as "the table" because there are two pages of the contract headed Progress Payments Schedule. 
Rather than the three columns in the Progress Payments Schedule, the table comprises five columns headed: "progress payment", "amount (including GST)", "percentage of total agreed amount", "due and payable immediately" and "balance (including GST) owed to builder." For Progress Payments (PP) 2 to 8 the description in the third column (headed "due and payable immediately") begins with the words "on completion". For example for PP5 the words under the heading "due and payable immediately" are: "on completion of supply and install of first floor timber joist and flooring, first floor frames, first floor windows and roof trusses". For PP6, the words are: "on completion of first floor brick work, fascia and gutter and roof tiles." PP1 and PP9 do not use the words "on completion" because PP1 is due "following the signing of the building contract" and PP 9 is due "following completion and upon delivery of final Occupation Certificate". "Completion" in relation to PP9 refers to "practical completion."
Clause 6 of the contract is headed "Accuracy of Contract Documents". It provides that: 
The decision on appeal relates to the builder's cross application before the Consumer and Commercial Division that the owner pay the progress payment claims in accordance with the table. The Tribunal identified one of the issues to be whether the meaning of the word "completion" in the "written" Progress Payment Schedule (the table) should be given a different meaning from that described in the printed form of contract, that is cl 15.3. 
The Tribunal outlined the parties' submissions and concluded that no notice of any ambiguity had been given by either party under cl 6.2. In those circumstances the Tribunal found that cl 6.4 applied and that the tender document falls into the category of "other documents" in 6.4. In those circumstances the Tribunal concluded that the words in cl 15.3 "prevail" and the progress payments are due on "substantial completion". The Tribunal rejected a submission from counsel for the owner that the "written" words in the table should prevail over the "printed" words in cl 15.3. 
A second issue identified by the Tribunal was that PP 5 and 6 did not conform with the requirements of cl 15.4 of the contract and were therefore invalid. The Tribunal found at [112] that there were some technical deficiencies in those claims but because the owner had not challenged the claims at the time, he was not entitled to do so now. The Tribunal went on to find at [114] that the work for stages PP5 and PP6 were substantially complete as required by cl 15 and the builder was entitled to make those claims. 
Of the original six grounds of appeal, only the first remains to be determined. That ground is that: 
Because we have rejected this ground of appeal, it is not necessary to determine grounds 3 or 4. Grounds 5 and 6 were withdrawn. The owner did not appeal against the Tribunal's finding in relation to the validity of the PP5 and PP6 claims so there is no need to address ground 2 which related to their validity.
The owner submits that the obligation to pay a progress payment only arises when the works described in each of the stages for which a progress payment is claimed have reached a stage of "total completion", not "substantial completion." 
A preliminary issue is whether the owner is prevented from relying on this ground because it was not raised before the Tribunal. In our view it was raised. The amended points of claim filed on 29 May 2013 put in issue that the owner was not required to make a progress payment unless the works were complete or substantially complete. 
The guiding principle of the NCAT Act in its application to proceedings is to "facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings": s 36. One of the "real issues" before the Tribunal was the meaning of "completion" in the table. That is apparent from the amended points of claim, the fact that witnesses were cross-examined about that issue, that the parties made submissions about it and the Tribunal determined it. In those circumstances the principle enunciated by the High Court in Coulton v Holcombe [1986] HCA 33;  162 CLR 1, that a party is bound by the conduct of his case and is not, except in the most exceptional circumstances, to raise a new argument which he or she failed to put at the hearing, does not apply.
Even if the issue has been raised for the first time on appeal, it is expedient in the interests of justice to determine it: O'Brien v Komesaroff [1982] HCA 33;  (1982) 150 CLR 310 at 319.
The meaning of a term in a contract is to be determined by what a reasonable person in the position of a party to it, would have understood that term to mean. That requires consideration of the text, the surrounding circumstances known to the parties and the purpose or object of the transaction: Pacific Carriers Ltd v BNP Paribas [2004] HCA 35;  218 CLR 451 at  [22]. Both parties agreed that the contract was not ambiguous but for different reasons.
The owner submitted that the contract is not ambiguous if the "reasonable person" approach is adopted. Clauses 15.3 and 15.4 set out what the builder is required to do when claiming a progress payment. Those provisions allow the builder to make a claim when the works described in each of the stages set out in the table have been "substantially completed". There was no dispute as to that contention. Next, the owner submitted that where a claim is made in circumstances where the works have been "substantially completed" but not "totally completed", the builder has a period of five working days to "totally complete" the works described in that stage. After the five working days, if the works are "totally complete" the owner is obliged to make the progress payment. If they are not, the owner is not obliged to pay.
In the owner's view, this interpretation is not absurd and gives every word of the contract document a meaning. 
We are not persuaded that a reasonable person in the builder's situation would have understood the contract to have the meaning for which the owner contends. In all contracts, each of the parties is entitled to receive the benefits conferred by the terms of the contract at the time and manner stated. In this case one of the benefits conferred on the builder is an entitlement under cl 15.3 to make written claims for progress payments for substantial completion of each stage of the works. This is an unremarkable entitlement under a building contract. It is not modified by the table setting out the stages at which the claim may be made. 
Contrary to the Tribunal's conclusion, cl 6 does not apply to the circumstances of this case. Firstly, on their terms, cl 6.2 to 6.4 only apply if a party becomes aware of an error, ambiguity or inconsistency and gives the other party written notice of the problem. That did not occur in this case. In particular, cl 6.4 only applies if the owner fails to give the builder written instructions as to how the builder should proceed. Again, that did not occur in this case. 
Secondly, the table is not an "other document" referred to in cl 6.4. While the tender document is described as an "other document", (Schedule 1, item 14 of the contract) by inserting the words "Refer to Tender" in Schedule 2 and in the blank Progress Payments Schedule on the following page, the parties have incorporated the table as Schedule 2 of the contract. 
Thirdly, the table is not a "special condition" referred to in cl 6.4 and there is no basis for giving it precedence over the "general conditions" in cl 15. 
For these reasons, the Tribunal's reasoning is incorrect. But its conclusion is correct for the following reasons.
Under cl 15.3, the builder "must give the owner a written claim for a progress payment for the substantial completion of each stage". A stage is defined to mean "any of the stages described in Schedule 2." While the table does not contain a heading called "stage", it is clear from the descriptions provided under the heading "due and payable immediately" and from the contract as a whole that the information in that column is a description of the stages of the works at which the builder is entitled to claim progress payments. The table refers to "completion" of particular works, but that reference is not inconsistent with the builder's obligation to make a claim where "substantial completion" of the particular stage has occurred. That is because the table does not place any obligation on the builder. It merely describes the stages at which a claim for a progress payment may be made and the amounts to be paid.
Nor does the table place any obligation on the owner. In accordance with cl 15.5, the owner must pay a progress claim within 5 working days of the builder giving the claim. There is no basis in the text of the contract, the surrounding circumstances or the purpose of the contract for concluding that the builder has a period of 5 days to totally complete a stage after which the owner must make the payment. 
The form and content of the table and the words "refer to tender" in Schedule 2 make it clear that the table is intended to describe the work which is to constitute each stage for which a payment is due. It does not describe the form of the progress claim, how that progress claim is to be assessed or when the owner's obligation to pay a progress claim arises. Those matters are regulated by cl 15 (and in the case of the final payment claim clause 26) of the contract. 
This construction of the contract is supported by the fact that under cl 15.6 any progress payment that the owner makes, other than the final progress payment, is "on account." Payment is not an acknowledgement of the value of the work carried out. The owner has no right of set-off except for the final payment claim. That means that the owner is not entitled to withhold payment if there is a defect. The owner must pay the progress payment amount set out in the table within 5 working days after a claim complying with the requirements of clause 15 has been provided by the builder. The words "immediately due and payable" in the heading of the table also support the conclusion that the owner is obliged to pay without deduction or set off when the stage is reached and the requirements of clause 15 have been met.
The meaning contended for by the owner would effectively deprive the builder of being paid progressively for the works. Any defect in the works for each stage, no matter how minor, would be a reason for the owner refusing payment. Further, as the Tribunal found at [97] and [98], the stages are interconnected and are not capable of being entirely completed until work scheduled in another stage is finished. That was the case in relation to PP4. As the Tribunal found at [98]:
Finally, the owner's interpretation could mean that other provisions of the contract would be meaningless or unnecessary. For example, the time by which the works are required to be practically complete is regulated by Item 12 of Schedule 1 to the contract. Practical completion does not require the building works to be defect free. Any defects that remain are to be notified by the owner in the defects liability period and made good by the builder in accordance with the provisions of cl 29 the contract. Clause 29 expressly recognises that defects that do not affect practical completion are to be notified at practical completion or during the defects liability period and are to be rectified at this time. On the owner's construction, the builder would be required to bring each of the stages of work apart from the first and the last, to a point of "total completion" at a much earlier stage otherwise there would be no entitlement to a progress payment. 
Alternatively, the owner contends that if there is an ambiguity in the contract, the contra proferentum rule should apply. Contra proferentem is a Latin term which means "against the offeror." If a clause in a contract is ambiguous, it should be interpreted against the interests of the person who insisted that the clause be included, in this case, the builder. 
For the reasons we have outlined, the contract is not ambiguous and this rule of construction does not apply.
The owner also submitted that if there is an ambiguity in the contract, it arises because of the inconsistency between the standard form provisions of the contract (including cl 15) and "a provision of the contract which was prepared specifically for this particular transaction" (the table). In those circumstances the specific provisions in the table prevail over the inconsistent standard form: Human Steel Ltd v AG for Victoria [1927] HCA 24;  (1927) 39 CLR 455. 
The builder submitted that the owner is prevented from relying on this submission because it was not raised before the Tribunal. We accept that it was not raised as a specific submission in support of the owner's claim before the Tribunal. But because it concerns the construction of a document, it is expedient, in the interests of justice, to determine it: O'Brien v Komesaroff [1982] HCA 33;  (1982) 150 CLR 310 at 319.
Again, because the contract is not ambiguous this rule of construction does not apply.
The appeal is dismissed because although the Tribunal made an error in its reasoning, the conclusion it reached was correct. Pursuant to the contract between the parties, the owner is liable to pay progress payments on substantial completion of the relevant stage, not on total or final completion of that stage.
############# I'm default separator ##########66
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - whetherquestion of law - no error of law - leave to appeal - no substantialmiscarriageof justice
In December 2013, an application was filed in the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal. On 1 January 2014, the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal (the Tribunal) was established and by clause 7 of schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
The application, at first instance, concerned a claim by the now appellants, under s 3A(1)(c) of the Consumer Claims Act 1998 (NSW), for relief from payment of a sum to the respondent, in respect of water usage for the period 27 September 2012 to 27 March 2013. 
The appellants are consumers in relation to "goods", defined in s 3 of the Consumer Claims Act (NSW) to be "any tangible thing that is or may be the subject of trade or commerce but does not include money or an interest in land". By s 6 of the Consumer Claims Act (NSW) any consumer may apply to the Tribunal for determination of a consumer claim. As the Tribunal at first instance correctly noted, whilst the application had been placed in the commercial sub-division on the basis that it related to an agricultural tenancy, that was an error. The underlying dispute concerns charges for the supply of water. The Agricultural Tenancies Act 1990
At first instance, the Tribunal dismissed the application and whilst not specifying the provision relied upon, it is plain that the application was dismissed pursuant to s 8(2)(a) of the Consumer Claims Act (NSW).
Section 80(1) of the Act provides that an appeal against an internally appealable decision may be made to an Appeal Panel. An internally appealable decision is defined in s 32 of the Act to include a general decision made by the Tribunal. A general decision is defined in s 29 of the Act as a decision made in the exercise of the Tribunal's general jurisdiction which is, in turn, ascertained by reference to legislation other than the Act. In this case, the Tribunal's jurisdiction was enlivened by s 7 of the Consumer Claims Act (NSW). The Tribunal therefore had general jurisdiction in relation to the consumer claim and the Appeal Panel has jurisdiction in relation to the internally appealable decision. 
By s 80(2) of the Act, an appeal from an internally appealable decision lies, as of right, on any question of law or, with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other ground. The question of leave is further restricted in the case of an appeal from the Consumer and Commercial Division, by clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the Act.
By orders dated 13 August 2014, the Appeal Panel constituted by S Westgarth, Deputy President granted leave to V Damasi to appear for the respondent and ordered, by consent, that the appeal be determined on the papers, unless by 15 August the appellants requested an oral hearing. An oral hearing was not requested. This appeal has therefore been determined on the papers.
The underlying dispute concerns the assessment by the respondent of water charges to the appellants for the period September 2012 to March 2013. Assessment was necessary for the reason that the meter measuring the flow of water to the appellants' property was malfunctioning during most of that period. The appellants dispute the methodology adopted to perform the assessment. The critical reasoning of the Tribunal is found at [18] to [21] of the Decision, which provides as follows:
The Tribunal acknowledged that by using an historical average, contingencies that relate specifically to the land during the period would not be taken into account. Nevertheless, the Tribunal held that the respondent's assessment had not been shown to be unfair for the reasons that the respondent had used a lower figure than the historical low and had then made a further deduction. Furthermore, the respondent conceded that the flow rate based on a report provided by the appellants was acceptable. In light of this, the Tribunal held that the then applicants had not satisfied their burden to establish the grounds upon which the Orders sought could be made and the application was dismissed.
The appellants are not legally represented. Mr Prendergast completed the requisite form, which is a standard form for an internal appeal and includes an application for leave to appeal. The box to indicate leave to appeal was sought, was checked. Accordingly, we must consider whether questions of law arise on the appeal and if not whether leave ought to be granted to appeal on any other ground. 
As noted above, an appeal to the Appeal Panel lies as a matter of right on a question of law. The notice of appeal does not articulate in express terms any question of law. It is necessary that a question of law be stated with precision, as an appellant's right to appeal arises from the question of law. Additionally, the question of law is the subject matter of the appeal: see for instance Hartnett v Migration Agents Registration Authority [2004] FCA 50 at [50]; in relation to appeals to the Federal Court of Australia, from the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, which lie only on "questions of law"; and Edyp v Brazbuild Pty Ltd [2011] NSWCA 218 at [35] in relation to s 67 of the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act (2001) (NSW) where appeals to the District Court lay only where that Tribunal had decided a question with respect to a matter of law. 
In circumstances where the appellants are not legally represented, it is apposite for the Tribunal to approach the issue by looking at the grounds of appeal generally. It is necessary for the Appeal Panel to determine whether a question of law has in fact been raised, subject to any procedural fairness considerations that might arise to the respondent.
Without expressing exhaustively possible questions of law, they include in no particular order:
Whether there has been a failure to provide proper reasons: Stoker v Adecco Gemuale Constructions Pty Ltd [2004] NSWCA 449 per Santow JA at [41]; Beale v Government Insurance Office of NSW (1997) 48 NSWLR 430 at 444 per Meagher JA; Pollard v RRR Corporation Pty Ltd [2009] NSWCA 110 at [56] per McColl JA (Ipp JA and Bryson AJA agreeing); Qushair v Raffoul [2009] NSWCA 329 at [52] and the following paragraphs, per Sackville AJA (Campbell JA and Bergin CJ in Eq agreeing). Section 62 of the Act requires the Tribunal to furnish reasons. This requirement was earlier reflected in s 49 of the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 (NSW). Recently, the Appeal Panel (Wright J, President; G Walker, Senior Member; and M Bolt, General Member) in Director General, Department of Finance & Services v Porter [2014] NSWCATAP 6 said in relation to the similar provision in s 89 of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act 1997 (NSW) at [32]:
Whether the Tribunal identified the wrong issue or asked the wrong question: Craig v State of South Australia [1995] HCA 58;  (1995) 184 CLR 163 at 179; Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30;  (2001) 206 CLR 323 at  [82].
Whether a wrong principle of law had been applied: Chapman v Taylor [2004] NSWCA 456 at  [33], per Hodgson JA (Beazley and Tobias JJA agreeing).
Whether there was a failure to afford procedural fairness: Italiano v Carbone [2005] NSWCA 177; Clements v Independent Indigenous Advisory Committee [2003] FCAFC 143 at  [8]. Section 38 of the Act prescribes the procedure of the Tribunal generally. Relevantly, s 38(2) expressly requires the Tribunal's procedures to accord with natural justice. Sub-sections 5 and 6 also embody aspects of procedural fairness. These rules were previously reflected in s 28 of the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act (NSW). Procedural fairness concerns the fairness of the proceedings and not the decision: Aronson, Dyer and Groves, Judicial Review of Administrative Action, 4th Ed; (2009) Lawbook Co at [7.20].
Whether the Tribunal failed to take into account relevant (i.e., mandatory) considerations: Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend Limited [1986] HCA 40;  (1986) 162 CLR 24. This was recently the subject of consideration by the Appeal Panel in Director General, Department of Finance & Services v Porter. It was said at [26] to [29] as follows: 
Whether the Tribunal took into account an irrelevant consideration, as explained in Peko-Wallsend per Mason J at 40:
Whether there was no evidence to support a finding of fact: Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33;  (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 355-6; The Australian Gas Light Company v Valuer-General [1940] NSWStRp 9;  (1940) 40 SR (NSW) 126 at 138.
Whether the decision is so unreasonable that no reasonable decision-maker would make it: Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd v Wednesday Corp [1947] EWCA Civ 1;  (1947) 45 LGR 635; Lo v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue  (2013) 85 NSWLR 86 at [10]; Minister for Immigration and Citizenship v Li [2013] HCA 18;  (2013) 249 CLR 332.
In summary, the appellants contend as follows: (1) The Tribunal gave permission to each party to rely on late submissions, but noted at [8] of the Decision that not all submissions were read (Ground 8).
The Respondent contends that there is no breach of procedural fairness for the reasons that: (a) The Tribunal had before it a substantial number of documents filed in accordance with interlocutory orders;
In relation to the other grounds, the Respondent contends that the Tribunal correctly apprehended the appellants' complaint about the respondent's method of assessing water charges and further that the Tribunal's key findings were correct and in accordance with the evidence including a comprehensive report filed on behalf of the respondent and the report filed by the appellants. The respondent supports the reasoning of the Tribunal and relies on its submissions filed at first instance on 21 February 2014.
In this case, the grounds of appeal are set out as numbered paragraphs that correlate to the numbered paragraphs of the Decision. They identify factual disputes. As noted in Waterford v Commonwealth [1987] HCA 25;  (1987) 163 CLR 54 per Brennan J at 77 "[t]here is no error of law simply in making a wrong finding of fact." 
Nevertheless, pointing to a wrong finding of fact may be indicative of an underlying error of law and therefore raise a question of law. For instance, a wrong finding of fact may be indicative of an error of law occasioned by a failure to consider a relevant consideration, or consideration of irrelevant factors, or be reflective of a decision no reasonable decision-maker would make. Also, the distinction between fact and law is not always clear. In Lombard Farms Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2013] NSWADTAP 42 at  [9] to [23] the Appeal Panel considered the distinction between questions of law and fact.
A close reading of the grounds of appeal reveals two questions of law. First, whether the appellants were not afforded procedural fairness for the reason that submissions filed by the appellants after the hearing were not read by the Tribunal (Ground 8). Secondly, whether relevant considerations were not taken into account (in particular Grounds 10, 15 to 18). The appellants allege that the Tribunal ought to have based its decision on criteria referable to the land in question and not historical averages. 
As to the first question of law, the Appeal Panel has concluded that there was no breach of procedural fairness, as identified by the appellants and no error of law for the following reasons. 
Orders were made on 20 December 2013 which provided, among other things, for the parties to file and serve the evidence on which they relied.
On 3 January 2014 the parties were notified that the hearing of the proceedings was listed for 20 March 2014.
On 16 January 2014, the Tribunal's orders of 20 December 2013 were varied to allow the parties extensions of the time allowed to file and serve the evidence on which they relied. The appellants were ordered to file and serve their evidence by 24 January 2014.
On 18 February 2014, the Tribunal's orders of 20 December 2013 were again varied, on this occasion to allow the respondent until 21 February 2014 to file and serve the evidence upon which it relied. The Tribunal's notification of the orders stated that the matter remained listed for hearing on 20 March 2014. The proceedings were heard on that date. The hearing lasted approximately three hours and the Tribunal heard oral submissions from the parties.
In paragraph 8 of the Decision, the Member stated that the Tribunal did not consider the material submitted by both parties after the date of the hearing, as to do so would have breached the principles of procedural fairness. This material included a submission by the respondent dated 1 April 2014 and documents from the now appellants sent to the Tribunal by facsimile on 31 March 2014. 
The documents sent from the appellants to the Tribunal on 31 March 2014 consisted of a cover page in the form of a submission, a three page document titled 'Property Information' which contains historical account information from the respondent in connection with the appellants, a copy of a letter from Ruralco to the appellants dated 23 January 2014, a copy of a Water Sales Credit document from Ruralco to the appellants dated 20 December 2013 and a NAB Domestic payment report dated 23 January 2014. 
For the reason that the appellants were seeking to file further evidence after the hearing had concluded, the Tribunal was correct in excluding the evidence. To admit the material into evidence after the hearing had concluded and without allowing the respondent to respond to it, would have amounted to a clear breach of procedural fairness.
The Tribunal took into account, for the appellants, a bundle of documents which included two reports by SunRISE Mapping & Research dated 23 September 2013 and 10 January 2014. The material disregarded by the Tribunal was material coming after the hearing. 
Section 38(5)(c) of the Act requires the Tribunal to "ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings." In the circumstances, s 38(5)(c) was satisfied.
As to the second question of law (whether relevant factors were ignored) the task of the Tribunal was to make orders that "in its opinion, will be fair and equitable to all the parties to the claim" (Consumer Claims Act (NSW), s 13(1)). The factors that a Tribunal may (but not necessarily must) take into account are as varied as are the claims that come to the Tribunal. Section 13(2) of the Consumer Claims Act (NSW) identifies, without limiting the factors a Tribunal is bound to take into account in determining what is fair and equitable, several factors which "must be taken into account, if they are material in the circumstances". For the reason that the dispute the subject of the claim arose because there was no contractual mechanism for ascertaining water charges, where the meter failed, many of the identified factors are not material in the circumstances. 
Here the task of the Tribunal was to determine what was a fair and equitable charge for water usage, in circumstances where the parties had not planned for the contingency that the meter would fail. Evidence of historical averages, meteorological conditions, and the circumstances attending to the land, are all factors that might rationally have informed the Tribunal as to what was fair and equitable: but that is not enough. To be a relevant consideration, in the sense identified in Peko-Wallsend, the consideration must be one that the Tribunal was bound to take into account having regard to the subject matter, scope and purpose of the power the Tribunal was exercising. The task of the Tribunal was to determine what water charge for the period was fair to both parties. The appellants contend that the Tribunal failed to consider the personal circumstances of the appellants and the circumstances pertaining to the land. The Appeal Panel must decide whether in determining what charge was fair, the Tribunal was bound to consider those circumstances. 
As previously noted, s 13(2) of the Consumer Claims Act (NSW) identified several mandatory considerations, if material in the circumstances. The factors pointed to by the appellants are not expressly identified. The real question is therefore whether it may be implied from the subject matter, scope and purpose of the power, that the personal circumstances of the appellants and the circumstances pertaining to the land must be considered by the Tribunal when making a determination of a fair charge. 
As noted by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [29] the submissions of the parties may influence what are the mandatory considerations. The appellants contended before the Tribunal and reiterate on appeal that the historical averages are not a sound platform from which to determine whether the respondent's assessment represented a fair price, for the reason that neither the historical averages nor the respondent's report take into account the factors affecting the land in question. For this reason, it was necessary for the Tribunal to have regard to the evidence concerning the factors affecting the land.
For the reason that the Tribunal's task was to determine what was a fair price as between the parties and because the appellants had contended that their circumstances did not follow historical patterns and that the respondent's report did not consider the circumstances attending to the land, it was incumbent on the Tribunal, at least, to consider: (a) the circumstances affecting the appellants; and
We now turn to consider whether the Tribunal took account, in the relevant sense, those circumstances. As Wilcox J noted in Nestle Australia Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation  (1987) 16 FCR 167 at 184:
At [18] the Tribunal acknowledged that the historical data did not make allowances for contingencies affecting the land and at [23] said:
It is apparent that the Tribunal had regard to the personal circumstances affecting the appellants.
We now turn to consider the second relevant factor identified, whether the respondent's report took account of the circumstances affecting the land. The evidence before the Member included three expert reports, including two SunRISE Mapping & Research expert reports relied upon by the appellants.
The respondent relied upon an expert report from Irrigation Systems Australia dated 12 February 2012. This report assessed the water usage on 4 different bases which were: (c) Climate - Crop Coefficient Method Estimate; (d) Local Averages Method Estimate; (e) Farm 277 Historical Water Use Estimate; and (f) Farm 277 Water Ordering History Analysis Estimate.
The Farm 277 Water Ordering History Analysis Estimate considered the water ordering history in the period September 2012 to March 2013 when the meter did not function. The author of the Irrigation Systems Australia Report considered the ordering history of prior seasons as well as the 2012/13 season. The expert concluded that a fair estimation of water usage using the Farm 277 Water Ordering History from 1 September 2012 to 31 March 2013 was 76 megalitres using a 15L/s flow rate.
The appellants' expert reports of 23 September 2013 cast doubt on the flow rate of 15L/s, thereby prompting the use of the 11.7L/s flow rate which was recorded as an average flow rate in an irrigation event on 11 February 2014.The respondent instructed its expert to use a flow rate of 11.7L/s instead of 15L/s. This adjusted the conclusion so that a fair estimation of water usage using the Farm 277 Water Ordering History from 1 September 2012 to 31 March 2013 was 58 megalitres using a 11.7L/s flow rate. The figure of 58 megalitres was the lowest estimate of the four different assessment methodologies referred to above. 
It therefore cannot be concluded that the respondent's report ignored entirely circumstances pertaining to the land and in particular historical ordering patterns.
The Appellants' expert reports dated 10 January 2014 concluded by stating:
This was not done. In addition, an independent calibration of a water meter was recommended. That too was not done. The appellants' 10 January 2014 report essentially concluded that more work was required to resolve the differences between the parties.
The Tribunal, having regard to the expert reports, discerned that the figures charged by the respondent were less than the historical low and concluded that this mitigated against not making allowance for particular contingencies that affected the land and water usage and that the appellants had not demonstrated that the respondent's assessment was unfair. The Tribunal ultimately concluded that the appellants had not discharged their burden. This conclusion was not arrived at by ignoring relevant factors. 
Accordingly, no error of law has been demonstrated. 
The appellants in any event, seek leave to appeal. The Appeal Panel noted in Bilquip Pty Ltd, Illmat Pty Ltd, Holibass Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (NSW) (RD)  [2013] NSWADTAP 36 at  [38] and [39] that the requirement for leave to be granted signals that an appellant must demonstrate a sound basis for the grant of leave. This was also referred to by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban at [84] as follows:
Furthermore, before granting leave to appeal in an internal appeal from the Consumer and Commercial Division, the Appeal Panel must first consider Schedule 4 of the Act. Clause 12 of Schedule 4 limits the grant of leave to appeal from the Consumer and Commercial Division, to cases where the Appeal Panel is satisfied the appellant may have suffered a "substantial miscarriage of justice" because (relevantly) the decision was not fair and equitable, or was against the weight of evidence.
In Collins v Urban the Appeal Panel considered this provision and said at [68], [71], [76] to [79]:
It is only where the Appeal Panel is satisfied that an appellant may have suffered a serious miscarriage of justice that the Appeal Panel "may" grant leave to appeal in accordance with the principles earlier extracted from [84] of Collins v Urban. 
The appellants' notice of appeal indicates that they primarily rely on the Decision being against the weight of the evidence to demonstrate both that there has been a substantial miscarriage of justice and also as warranting the grant of leave to appeal. The appellants' primary contention is that evidence regarding actual water usage and evidence of the circumstances on the land in question, demonstrate that the respondent's assessment method was flawed and resulted in inflated water charges. Accordingly, the Tribunal's order dismissing the application and therefore implicitly affirming the respondent's assessment method resulted in a miscarriage of justice. 
In order to consider granting leave, the Appeal Panel must first, in this particular case, be satisfied either that the matter was not conducted or decided fairly and equitably; or that it was decided against the preponderance of evidence. Furthermore, the Appeal Panel must be satisfied that had those circumstances not existed, there was a significant possibility or a chance which was fairly open, that the appellants may have been successful, at least in part. 
For the reasons stated above in relation to procedural fairness the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the matter was not conducted or decided fairly or equitably.
In relation to the evidence, as noted above, the appellants' expert reports were inconclusive and recommended further investigation. On the other hand, the respondent's report provided a range of conclusions and included consideration of historical watering history and therefore did not ignore circumstances pertaining to the land. The Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the Decision was against the weight of the evidence. 
In terms of Schedule 4 of the Act, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that there was a substantial miscarriage of justice because the matter was not conducted or decided fairly or was decided against the preponderance of evidence. The prerequisites for granting leave are not satisfied. The Appeal Panel is therefore precluded from granting leave to appeal. 
Insofar as the Notice of Appeal raised a question of law, the appeal is dismissed. The Tribunal's conclusion that the appellants had not satisfied their burden was open on the evidence and the contentions that there was a denial of procedural fairness and that the Tribunal failed to have regard to mandatory factors are not made out.
For the reason that Sch 4, cl 12 of the Act is not satisfied, leave to appeal on any other ground is not granted.  (1) Appeal on questions of law dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########67
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - application forextension of time in which to appeal - exercise of discretion -appealdismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########68
APPEAL - NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal - victims support - right toappeal to Appeal Panel
The preliminary issue in these proceedings is whether the Appeal Panel of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal has jurisdiction to hear an appeal from a decision of the Tribunal made under s 36 of the now repealed Victims Support and Rehabilitation Act 1996
On 21 March 2014 the appellant lodged a notice of appeal against a decision of the Administrative and Equal Opportunity Division made on 21 February 2014. The Registry initially rejected the internal appeal because the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act) excludes internal appeals against an administrative review decision for the purposes of s 51 of the Victims Rights and Support Act 2013
The history of this matter is that on 6 May 2011 ATX applied to the Victims Compensation Tribunal for compensation for an injury. On 18 February 2013 a compensation assessor determined that ATX was not entitled to compensation and issued a Notice of Determination under s 29 of the old Act. On 9 May 2013 ATX appealed the compensation assessor's determination to the Victims Compensation Tribunal. However on 7 May 2013 the government had introduced legislation to repeal the old Act. On 4 June 2013 the old Act was repealed and replaced with the new Act. Appeals to the abolished Victims Compensation Tribunal were taken to have been commenced in the Administrative Decisions Tribunal: new Act, Sch 2, cl 14.
On 16 August 2013 the legislation was amended to provide that appeals that were pending to the former Victims Compensation Tribunal as at 3 June 2013 were to be determined under the old Act: Victims Rights and Support Regulation 2013 (NSW) (the new Regulation), cl 16. As ATX had previously made submissions on the basis of the provisions in the new Act, the Registrar of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal notified her of the change to the legislation and gave her the opportunity to make final written submissions.
On 1 January 2014, the Administrative Decisions Tribunal was abolished and the Civil and Administrative Tribunal was established: NCAT Act, s 7 and Sch 1, cl 3. ATX's application for compensation was an "unheard proceeding" that is, a pending proceeding before the Administrative Decisions Tribunal that had not been heard before 1 January 2014. Unheard proceedings are taken to have been duly commenced in NCAT and may be heard and determined by NCAT: NCAT Act, Sch 1, cl 7(1). Under cl 7(3) NCAT has and is entitled to exercise all the functions which the Administrative Decisions Tribunal previously had. The legislation to be applied to the application for compensation is that which would have applied if the NCAT legislation had not been enacted. That means that the old Act applied. 
The matter was listed on 19 August 2014 to determine whether the Appeal Panel had jurisdiction to hear the appeal. The Respondent, the Victims Compensation Fund Corporation did not appear. The Appeal Panel decided that it did have jurisdiction and gave ex tempore reasons. After making that decision, it came to the attention of the Appeal Panel that the Respondent had not been served with the Notice of Appeal and may not have had notice of the hearing. 
Submissions were sought from each party as to whether the ex-tempore decision should be set aside either by consent or because the Respondent's case had not adequately been put to the Tribunal: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation 2013, cl 9. The Respondent consented to the decision being set aside. On 2 October 2014, the Appeal Panel made the following orders 'on the papers': (1) The decision of the Appeal Panel made on 19 August 2014 that the Tribunal has jurisdiction to hear this appeal, is set aside.
At the hearing of the jurisdictional issue on 10 October 2014 both parties were represented by lawyers. The Appellant submitted that Sch 3 of the NCAT Act did not apply because the matter was governed by the provisions of the old Act, not the new Act. As the provisions relating to appeals to the District Court had been repealed, there is a right of appeal to the Appeal Panel. 
The Respondent did not necessarily disagree but made submissions in their amicus role. The first submission was that a person's right of appeal to the District Court under the old Act may not have been extinguished by the new Act and the 2013 amendments to the victims' compensation statutory scheme. If that appeal right has not been clearly extinguished it may remain as a residual right or common law right. If that is the case, the District Court, not the Appeal Panel of NCAT has jurisdiction to hear an appeal.
In support of that submission the Respondent referred to s 30 of the Interpretation Act 1987
Section 32 of the NCAT Act gives the Tribunal internal appeal jurisdiction over:
The decision against which ATX has appealed is not an administrative review decision but it is a "general decision". NCAT's general jurisdiction is defined in s 29:
In this case, the legislation which enables NCAT to make decisions or exercise other functions is 36 of the old Act in combination with cl 16 of the new Regulation. Section 36 provides that:
The Tribunal referred to in this provision is NCAT. Clause 16 of the new Regulation provides that:
This clause re-enlivens parts of s 36 and s 38 of the old Act. It does not re-enliven s 39 of the old Act which provided that an appeal was available to the District Court, with leave, on a question of law. 
This provision was repealed on the commencement of the new Act on 4 June 2013. It was not re-enlivened by cl 16 of the new Regulation. The new Act sets out transitional provision in relation to appeals already before the District Court at the time of the commencement of the new Act. Schedule 2, cl 15 of the new Act provides that: 
The new Act only refers to District Court appeal rights in respect of pending proceedings before that Court. There is no express right of appeal in the District Court Act 1973
In our view following the repeal of s 39 of the old Act on 4 June 2013, the District Court does not have jurisdiction to hear an appeal from a determination under the old or the new Act. That conclusion is supported by the fact that cl 15 of Sch 2 of the new Act provides for pending District Court appeals already commenced at the time of the amendments. 
There is no residual or common law right to appeal to the District Court. Section 39 of the old Act has been repealed and that repeal does not "revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the amendment or repeal takes effect": Interpretation Act, s 30(1)(a). 
In Attorney General of New South Wales v World Best Holdings Limited and Ors [2005] NSWCA 261 the issue of the retrospective operation of a statute was discussed. At [62] Spigelman CJ made the point that
In that case one of the issues was whether parliament intended to act unjustly or unfairly with respect to the retrospectivity of a legislative scheme. That is not the situation in this case. None of the provisions relevant to these proceedings purport to retrospectively validate an appeal right to the District Court. 
The Appeal Panel has jurisdiction to hear this appeal under s 32 of the NCAT Act because it is against a decision made by the Tribunal in proceedings for a general decision and is not excluded by cl 15 of Sch 3 to the NCAT Act. 
############# I'm default separator ##########69
ADMINISTRATIVE - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - Appeal - noquestion of law - leave to appeal - whether substantial miscarriageof justice -leave to appeal granted
This is an application for leave to appeal and an appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal dated 3 March 2014.
Ms Holley (the appellant) provides computer and web design services. Ms Evatt (the respondent) and the appellant entered into an oral contract for design and construction of a website advertising wedding venues in the Blue Mountains (the contract). At first instance, the Tribunal ordered that the respondent pay $990 to the appellant and provide access to that website (the Decision).
By application filed on 9 October 2013, the now respondent brought a claim under the Consumer Claims Act 1998 (NSW) in connection with the contract. Although the application was filed in the Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal, the New South Wales Civil and Administrative Tribunal (the Tribunal) commenced on 1 January 2014 and all matters were transferred to the Tribunal pursuant to Schedule 1, s7 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013(NSW) (the Act). The proceedings were taken to have been duly commenced in the Tribunal and eligible to be heard and determined by the Tribunal. The application was determined by the Tribunal on 3 March 2014.
The orders the subject of the appeal are the following: 1. The Tribunal orders that the respondent is to give access to the applicant to leuralla.com on or before 10-Mar-2014. ... 4. The respondent is to reimburse the applicant the sum of $990.00 on or before 7-Apr-2014.
On 10 March 2014, within time for filing, the appellant filed a Notice of Appeal. By letter dated 24 March 2014 the Tribunal wrote to the appellant informing her that by operation of Schedule 1, clause 7(3)(b) of the Act, the appeal may be misconceived and it was appropriate to proceed by way of rehearing. This was a mechanism for review, prior to the formation of this Tribunal. By order dated 30 April 2014, the rehearing application was dismissed. On 13 May 2014 the appellant filed a further Notice of Appeal against the orders extracted in the previous paragraph.
Section 80(1) of the Act provides that an appeal against an internally appealable decision may be made to an Appeal Panel. An internally appealable decision is defined in s 32 of the Act to include a general decision made by the Tribunal. A general decision is defined in s 29 of the Act as a decision made in the exercise of the Tribunal's general jurisdiction which is, in turn, ascertained by reference to legislation other than the Act. In this case, the Tribunal's jurisdiction was enlivened by s 7 of the Consumer Claims Act 1998 (NSW). The Tribunal therefore had general jurisdiction in relation to the consumer claim and the Appeal Panel has jurisdiction in relation to the internally appealable decision.
By s 80(2) of the Act, an appeal from an internally appealable decision lies, as of right, on any question of law or, with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other ground. The question of leave is further restricted in the case of an appeal from the Consumer and Commercial Division, by clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the Act.
The appellant's review rights are by way of appeal or leave to appeal to the Appeal Panel. By orders dated 21 July 2014 Wright J, President ordered that the appellant serve copies of the two Notices of Appeal on the Respondent and stood the matter over for further directions. On 11 August 2014 Wright J, President made further procedural orders and listed the matters for hearing on 30 September 2014.
Nothing turns on the fact of there being two Notices of Appeal. At the hearing, the respondent accepted that the two Notices of Appeal should be treated as one Notice of Appeal against the Decision and instituted within time.
The Tribunal set out the history of the dispute and the nature of the oral contract entered into on 19 February 2013. The appellant agreed to design a website to publicise and attract bookings to the respondent's wedding venue.
The Tribunal considered the matters required and determined that: (a) The appellant was not given enough time to complete the website; (b) The deadline given by the respondent to the appellant on 9 April 2014 to deliver the completed site was too short; (c) The parties did not agree on a date before the unilateral imposition by the respondent of a 9 April 2014 deadline; (d) The appellant had only partially completed what she had contracted to deliver; (e) The work delivered was of poor quality; (f) The respondent terminated the agreement without giving the appellant reasonable time and opportunity to complete the site; (g) The appellant ought to be paid for work completed before 15 April 2014; (h) The respondent was given a "draft" copy of the site which should be paid for; (i) The respondent received the benefit of two searches conducted by the appellant. These searches formed part of separate agreements and any costs incurred thereunder are not refundable.
The Appeal Panel has the following material before it from the appellant: (a) The 90 page document filed and served in proceedings below, attaching email correspondence and other documents; (b) The first Notice of Appeal dated 10 March 2014 and a 15 page submission document entitled Grounds of Appeal and Orders challenged on Appeal; (c) The second Notice of Appeal, filed on 13 May 2014 attaching 8 pages of submission, the Tribunal decision under review and an expert report, not tendered below, dated 6 April 2014 under the hand of Ms Jodi Allbon of "Let's buildawebsite".
The respondent tendered the documents filed and served in the proceedings below as well as the original application form. The respondent did not file a Notice of Reply, contrary to directions issued by the President. The requirement to file a Notice of Reply is not mandatory and there are no default judgment provisions under the Act.
The appellant did not argue that any prejudice had arisen from the respondent's failure to file a Notice of Reply. Furthermore, the respondent relied solely on oral submissions, dispensing with the need to attach any documents to a Notice of Reply.
The respondent appeared at the directions and the hearing and was ready to defend the appeal. It is therefore the view of the Appeal Panel that the absence of a Notice of Reply is of no consequence and as no objection was taken, the Appeal Panel proceeded with the hearing.
The appellant is not legally represented. The appellant completed the requisite form, which is a standard form for an internal appeal and includes an application for leave to appeal. As noted above, an appeal to the Appeal Panel lies as a matter of right on a question of law and with leave on any other ground. Whilst not identifying a question of law, the appellant did not concede that leave to appeal was necessary. In any event, leave to appeal was sought. Accordingly, we must consider whether questions of law arise on the appeal and if not whether leave ought to be granted to appeal on any other ground.
The Notice of Appeal does not articulate, in express terms, any question of law. The importance of the question of law was noted by the Appeal Panel inPrendergast v Western Murray Irrigation Ltd [2014] NSWCATAP 69 at  [11]. Without expressing exhaustively possible questions of law, the Appeal Panel inPrendergast cited the following at [13]: (1) (1)Whether there has been a failure to provide proper reasons. (2) (2)Whether the Tribunal identified the wrong issue or asked the wrong question. (3) (3)Whether a wrong principle of law has been applied. (4) (4)Whether there was a failure to afford procedural fairness. (5) (5)Whether the Tribunal failed to take into account a relevant (mandatory) consideration. (6) (6)Whether the Tribunal took into account an irrelevant consideration. (7) (7)Whether there was no evidence to support a finding of fact. (8) (8)Whether the decision was so unreasonable that no reasonable decision-maker would have made it.
First, the appellant submitted that the conclusion of the Tribunal, that the website was not constructed on 15 April 2014, was against the weight of the evidence.
Secondly, the appellant submitted that the Tribunal, constantly interrupted by the respondent, had no opportunity to appreciate the processes involved, the evidence presented or the roles and responsibilities of the parties to the dispute.
The appellant's first contention amounts to a factual dispute. As noted by the Appeal Panel in Prendergast at [17] and [18] whilst a wrong finding of fact does not amount to an error of law, it may be indicative of an underlying error and there are fine distinctions between fact and law. Accordingly, the issue must be carefully considered.
The material filed at first instance by the then applicant included a report by Fernfin Pty Ltd. The primary conclusion of the Tribunal was based upon that evidence. The Appeal Panel is satisfied that the appellant's first contention concerns weight given to evidence and does not raise a question of law.
The second contention raises a question of law, as it raises the question whether the now appellant was, at first instance, afforded a hearing. It is a contention that the appellant was denied procedural fairness.
The obligation of the Tribunal to afford procedural fairness was recently considered by the Appeal Panel in Kline v NSW Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCATAP 41. The Appeal Panel (Wright J, President, M Harrowell, Principal Member and Dr J Renwick SC, Senior Member) said at [59] to [63]: 59 Rather, the issue is whether the appellant, in the perhaps unusual circumstances of this matter, was denied an opportunity to be heard. 60 We have already noted the terms of ss 38(2) and (5) of the Act. 61 Our attention was drawn to the statement of Giles JA in Brennan v New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation; New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation v Brennan [2011] NSWCA 298;  (2011) 83 NSWLR 23 at  [63] that: ...in principle, the requirements of procedural fairness are identified as a matter of law depending upon the institutional setting in which decision-making is to operate, the relevant statutory scheme, the subject matter of the decision and, as part of that analysis, the seriousness of the potential consequences of an adverse decision. 62 This Tribunal stated in CKG v Public Guardian [2014] NSWCATAP 32 at  [14]: the Tribunal is bound to accord procedural fairness ( or 'natural justice') to parties to its proceedings, and, in addition to persons whose interests, rights or legitimate expectations are affected: see, generally, Hess v Public Guardian [2005] NSWADTAP 43 at  [20] ff. The duty derives from the common law, and is reinforced by s 38(2) and (5) of the NCAT Act. 63 The existence of this obligation was not disputed in this matter. The issue is what was required in order to meet the obligation. What is 'a reasonable opportunity to be heard' will, of course, vary from case to case. In part that is because, as Gleeson CJ said in Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex parte Lam [2003] HCA 6;  (2003) 214 CLR 1 at  [37]: Fairness is not an abstract concept. It is essentially practical. Whether one talks in terms of procedural fairness or natural justice, the concern of the law is to avoid practical injustice.
It is here alleged that the denial of procedural fairness arose from the constant interruption by the respondent leading to what the appellant perceived to be an unfair time allocation. The hearing was set down for 60 minutes. It ultimately took 90 minutes to dispose of the matter. During that time the appellant alleged that she was afforded 20 minutes to present her case, whilst the respondent took 40 minutes. This, the appellant contends, led to her inability to fully explain to the Tribunal her level of expertise in web design. Had she been able to explain more fully, the Tribunal may have concluded that her opinion should be preferred over that of the expert report tendered by the then applicant.
The Appeal Panel is not persuaded that this ground of appeal has been established. Whilst a transcript was not provided to the Appeal Panel, the respondent did not cavil with the appellant's assertion as to the allocation of time at first instance. Nevertheless, the appellant was unable to point to any actual as opposed to perceived prejudice caused, accepting for the purposes of analysis that the Respondent spoke for longer than the appellant. The Appeal Panel accepts submissions of counsel for the respondent that it is desirable but not always possible to allow for exactly equal time in contested hearings. Any discrepancy in time allocation does not of itself give rise to prejudice. Here the prejudice is said to arise from the fact that had more time been allowed the appellant could have convinced the Tribunal of her case. In essence she missed, by lack of sufficient time for oral submissions, an opportunity for a favourable result.
The Appeal Panel does not accept that the appellant has suffered prejudice. The Tribunal at first instance had before him a 90 page document from the appellant, which had been judiciously highlighted and tabbed, giving emphasis to the appellant's submissions. Furthermore, the hearing time was extended to ameliorate the effect of interruptions. In the circumstances there was no breach of procedural fairness and no error of law.
The appellants in any event, seek leave to appeal. The Appeal Panel noted in Bilquip Pty Ltd, Illmat Pty Ltd, Holibass Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (NSW) (RD)  [2013] NSWADTAP 36 at  [38] and [39] that an appellant must demonstrate a sound basis for the grant of leave. This was also referred to by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [84] as follows: 84. The general principles derived from these cases can be summarised as follows: (1) In order to be granted leave to appeal, the applicant must demonstrate something more than that the primary decision maker was arguably wrong in the conclusion arrived at or that there was a bona fide challenge to an issue of fact: BHP Billiton Ltd v Dunning [2013] NSWCA 421 at  [19] and the authorities cited there, Nakad v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2014] NSWCATAP 10 at  [45]; (2) Ordinarily it is appropriate to grant leave to appeal only in matters that involve: (a) issues of principle; (b) questions of public importance or matters of administration or policy which might have general application; or (c) an injustice which is reasonably clear, in the sense of going beyond merely what is arguable, or an error that is plain and readily apparent which is central to the Tribunal's decision and not merely peripheral, so that it would be unjust to allow the finding to stand; (d) a factual error that was unreasonably arrived at and clearly mistaken; or (e) the Tribunal having gone about the fact finding process in such an unorthodox manner or in such a way that it was likely to produce an unfair result so that it would be in the interests of justice for it to be reviewed, BHP Billiton Ltd v Dunning [2013] NSWCA 421 at  [20] and the authorities cited there, SAB v SEM [2013] NSWSC 253 at  [8] and [9] and the authorities cited there,Nakad v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2014] NSWCATAP 10 at  [45]; (3) In relation to an application for leave to appeal relating to a question of practice and procedure, the application is to be approached with the restraint applied by an appellate court when reviewing such decisions, especially if the application is made during the course of a hearing: BHP Billiton Ltd v Dunning [2013] NSWCA 421 at  [21] and the authorities cited there.
Furthermore, before granting leave to appeal in an internal appeal from the Consumer and Commercial Division, the Appeal Panel must first consider Schedule 4 of the Act. Clause 12 of Schedule 4 limits the grant of leave to appeal from the Consumer and Commercial Division, to cases where the Appeal Panel is satisfied the appellant may have suffered a "substantial miscarriage of justice" because the decision was not fair and equitable; or was against the weight of evidence; or as indicated by new evidence not previously before the Tribunal.
In Collins v Urban the Appeal Panel considered this provision and said at [68], [71], [76] to [79]: 68 Clause 12 does not require that the Appeal Panel must be satisfied that the appellant has actually suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice. All that is required is that the appellant "may" have suffered such a miscarriage. ... 71 From this passage, it can be seen that the concept of a substantial miscarriage of justice refers to a failure in the way a matter was conducted or decided which deprived the appellant of a chance that was fairly open of achieving a better outcome than occurred. ... 76 Accordingly, it should be accepted that a substantial miscarriage of justice may have been suffered because of any of the circumstances referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c) where there was a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved for the appellant had the relevant circumstance in para (a) or (b) not occurred or if the fresh evidence under para (c) had been before the Tribunal at first instance. 77 As to the particular grounds in cl 12(1)(a) and (b), without seeking to be exhaustive in any way, the authorities establish that: (1) If there has been a denial of procedural fairness the decision under appeal can be said to have been "not fair and equitable" - Hutchings v CTTT [2008] NSWSC 717 at  [35], Atkinson v Crowley [2011] NSWCA 194 at  [12]. (2) The decision under appeal can be said to be "against the weight of evidence" (which is an expression also used to describe a ground upon which a jury verdict can be set aside) where the evidence in its totality preponderates so strongly against the conclusion found by the tribunal at first instance that it can be said that the conclusion was not one that a reasonable tribunal member could reach - Calin v The Greater Union Organisation Pty Ltd [1991] HCA 23;  (1991) 173 CLR 33 at 41-42, MainteckServices Pty Limited v Stein Heurtey SA [2013] NSWSC 266 at  [153]. 78 If in either of those circumstances the appellant may have been deprived of a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved then the Appeal Panel may be satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision was not fair and equitable or because the decision was against the weight of the evidence. 79 In order to show that a party has been deprived of a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" of achieving a different and more favourable result because of one of the circumstances referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c), it will be generally be necessary for the party to explain what its case would have been and show that it was fairly arguable. If the party fails to do this, even if there has been a denial of procedural fairness, the Appeal Panel may conclude that it is not satisfied that any substantial miscarriage of justice may have occurred - see the general discussion in Kyriakou v Long [2013] NSWSC 1890 at  [32] ffconcerning the corresponding provisions of s 68 of the CTTT Act and especially at [46] and [55].
30It is only where the Appeal Panel is satisfied that an appellant may have suffered a serious miscarriage of justice that the Appeal Panel "may" grant leave to appeal in accordance with the principles earlier extracted from [84] of Collins v Urban.
The appellant contends that the prerequisites for granting leave to appeal are met. The appellant contends that due to: (a) the unfair allocation of time the hearing was not conducted fairly; (b) the conclusion being against the preponderance of evidence; and (c) unavailability of the appellant's expert report, tendered on the appeal; (d) the appellant lost a chance which was fairly open, of achieving a favourable result.
With respect to item (a), the Appeal Panel has already concluded that there was no material unfairness at the first instance hearing.
With respect to item (b) the appellant contends that had the evidence been duly considered, there is a possibility that the Tribunal may have concluded differently with respect to competency of the work done. It is the appellant's contention that she provided a completely built and fully functioning website in accordance with the terms of the contract. Any issues as to quality and speed of the website, were created by the Respondent's failure to provide quality photographs and text to replace temporary placeholder content. The appellant contends that she provided a fully functioning website with plug-ins and appropriate domain names, as per the terms of the oral contract between the parties.
It was apparent from the material tendered before the Tribunal that the respondent herself acknowledged that she had provided insufficient photographs and that the content provided was of a temporary nature. As per the terms of the contract, the respondent understood that it was incumbent upon her to provide a final selection of photographs and text which she failed to do.
The correspondence tendered before the Tribunal included numerous instructions to "hire a professional to retake the pictures". On several occasions the appellant requested that hundreds of images be sent to allow for a meaningful selection.
There was no reference to "placeholder" content in the Tribunal's reasons. The Appeal Panel has concluded that it cannot be gleaned from the Decision that the Tribunal apprehended the importance of the distinction between placeholder content and final content, which was explained in the 90 page submission tendered by the appellant below and on appeal. This distinction is relevant to the issue of whether, as ultimately decided by the Tribunal, the website was incompetently prepared.
With respect to item (b), the appellant also contends, that insofar as it is suggested that her work was incompetent because the website was hosted on the wrong URL or domain name, this was due to the respondent's failure to communicate to the appellant in a timely fashion that leurellaweddings.com was already registered in the respondent's name. This was not communicated to the appellant until 12 months after the contract had been entered into. This was significant considering that a significant complaint against the appellant concerned her alleged failure to provide a more relevant and user friendly URL name.
The appellant was only informed as late as 12 April 2014 that the relatively user friendly domain name leurellaweddings.com was available for use. This information was provided three days before the deadline unilaterally imposed by respondent. Had the appellant been informed of this earlier, it would have been possible to move the site, placeholder content or not, to a domain name of the respondent's choice. The correspondence concerning the domain name formed an important part of the appellant's evidence and was available to the Tribunal, but was not referred to in the Tribunal's reasons. Had this evidence been applied, the possibility arises that the Tribunal may have concluded differently in relation to the competency of the work done
With respect to item (c), the appellant tendered the expert report of "Let's Build a Website" without objection. The respondent submitted that the report cannot satisfy schedule 4 clause 12(c) as there is no evidence before the Appeal Panel as to why the report was not available at the time of the hearing. Furthermore, it was contended that the subject matter of the report was the subject of evidence and submissions at the first instance hearing and so is not new, or fresh.
The appellant, at the hearing of the appeal sought to explain why the report was not previously available. To the extent this explanation was evidence, the respondent was not in a position to answer it and it ought not be admitted at this late stage and to the extent it was submission it did not assist the Appeal Panel. It is in any event of no real moment because it was conceded by the respondent that the report may be taken into account in considering whether the appellant may have suffered a substantial injustice because the decision was not fair and equitable or against the weight of the evidence (see clauses 12(a) and (b)).
Pursuant to s 80, the Appeal Panel may permit such fresh evidence or evidence in addition to the evidence received by the Tribunal at first instance as it considers appropriate under the circumstances. The report was admitted on that basis and without resistance from the respondent.
The Appeal Panel has considered the report for the purpose of schedule 4 clauses 12(a) and (b) of the Act. The report states that the website was functioning and ready as at 15 April 2014, but for missing content to be supplied by the respondent. It is at odds with the Tribunal's conclusion that the website was not complete by the relevant date and was in draft only and that the appellant was provided insufficient time to complete the work under the contract. The report concludes that the website was in fact complete at the relevant date and that had the proper content been provided, the website would run smoothly. It supports the appellant's contention that the Tribunal's conclusions were against the preponderance of the evidence (item (b) referred to above). Had the Tribunal appreciated the importance of the content not provided by the now respondent, the conclusion may have differed. The Tribunal may have concluded that but for the respondent's failure to provide content the services rendered by the appellant were completed satisfactorily. In so saying, the Appeal Panel has had the benefit, unavailable to the Tribunal at first instance, of the opinion of "Let's Build a Website", which is in clear and concise terms.
There is one further issue. The Tribunal held that the order sought for access to the website was consented to by the appellant. This was denied by the appellant at the hearing of the appeal and the respondent did not seek to support the Tribunal's conclusion on this issue. This discrepancy provides further support to the appellant under item (b).
In light of the foregoing, the decision under appeal can be said to be "against the weight" of the evidence and the Appeal Panel is satisfied that there is a chance, which was fairly open, that a different, more favourable result could have been achieved had that not been the case.
The Appeal Panel must now turn to the question of whether or not to exercise its discretion to grant leave to appeal under s 80(2) of the Act. In determining this issue, the Appeal Panel has considered the principles to be applied by Collins v Urban at [65]-[84] as set out above. Here, there is a significant chance that there was an error in respect of fundamental aspects of the case. The two significant questions were: (a) Was the website complete at the relevant time; and (b) Was it of poor quality?
There is a significant chance that the Tribunal misapprehended the position with respect to fundamental aspects of the appellant's case and therefore the warrant for granting leave to appeal is made out.
The possibility that the Tribunal misapprehended the position potentially affects both orders the subject of the appeal.
Having granted leave to appeal, the Appeal Panel must consider whether the appeal is to be allowed.
For the reason that the possible misapprehension by the Tribunal goes to fundamental aspects of the appellant's case, it is appropriate for the appeal to be allowed and the evidence to be reconsidered.
With respect to Order 1 it became apparent during the hearing of the appeal that there was a significant dispute between the parties as to whether or not the appellant had already provided access to the website to the respondent and if so, whether that was sufficient to give the respondent what she contracted for, assuming that an order for access is ultimately held to be an appropriate order. This was not a matter that could be resolved by the Appeal Panel and may need to be the subject of further evidence. It is therefore appropriate that the matter be remitted for consideration by the Tribunal.
In the circumstances leave to appeal is granted and the appeal is allowed.
The Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) (1)Leave to appeal granted and appeal allowed. (2) (2)Set aside orders 1 and 4 made on 3 March 2014. (3) (3)Remit the matter to the Tribunal similarly constituted to be reconsidered. (4) (4)The appellant and respondent to file and serve all evidence they wish to rely upon, on or before 3 December 2014. (5) (5)No order as to costs.
############# I'm default separator ##########70
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION (PUBLIC ACCESS) - Tribunal affirmed agency'sdecision in relation to refusal in part or whole of two documents- appealdismissed - Tribunal affirmed agency's decision that no further documents held -found searches adequate - appeal - helderror of law - agency evidence did notrefer to the matters required to be addressed by Act - extension to merits('other grounds')- further evidence provided by agency - appeal dismissed.Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009, s 53.
This is an appeal against a decision of the Tribunal made under the Government Information (Public Access) Act 2009 (GIPA or the Act). 
The appellant is the access applicant. On 26 June 2013 the appellant filled in the form used by the Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force (the agency) for recording applications for access to information under GIPA. It is apparent that the appellant had difficulty expressing himself in written English. The agency treated the request, appropriately, as one for all information held by it about the appellant. The agency issued its decision on 23 July 2013, and advised that its searches had located seven Event Reports contained in its Computerised Operational Policing System (COPS). Five were released in full to him. Two were released in part (E 38832023, E 3860136), the deletions being considered necessary because they referred to the personal information of other persons. In deciding to make these deletions, the agency considered that the usual public interest in favour of disclosure of agency information was outweighed by the public interest consideration against disclosure of another individual's personal information(GIPA, s 14 Table 3(a)). 
The appellant applied to the agency for internal review of the decision. From the material before us, the application does not appear to have been actioned, resulting in a deemed refusal. He proceeded to lodge an application for external review with the Tribunal on 16 October 2013. 
In the course of the planning meetings held by the Tribunal the agency identified two further documents relevant to the application, a document relating to the culling of a Report from the COPS system, and a document relating to a complaint made by the appellant to the Ombudsman. Those documents were released in full to the appellant. 
In addition it located an Information Report (I 5126986) which it withheld in full. In its opinion, the document fell within the scope of the conclusive presumption against disclosure found in clause 7(b) of sched 1 of GIPA, i.e.
Finally, the appellant continued to press the view that not all documents covered by his application had been found, and questioned the reasonableness of the search. 
In its reasons the Tribunal stated that there were two issues before it: (a) has all information relevant to the application been located; and (b) is there an overriding public interest against disclosure of information sought by the applicant in terms of s 13 of GIPA. Under heading (b), the Tribunal examined the agency's decision in relation to the two documents released in part, and the document the subject of the claim of a conclusive presumption. 
The question of whether all documents have been located becomes a reviewable decision in the following way. If the agency's answer is that it has no further documents in relation to the information sought, that is a decision 'that the information is not held by the agency' (s 58(b). A decision that government information is not held by an agency is a reviewable decision (s 80(e)). Such a decision may be said to be an implied decision in any decision responding to an access application. The appellant expressed his concern that the search had not located all documents in his response to the initial decision. Because no internal review decision issued, the matter was addressed by the agency in the course of the planning meetings that proceeded the Tribunal's hearing on the papers. In support of the adequacy of its search, the agency relied on an affidavit from Senior Sergeant Nargis Fam of the Information Access and Subpoena Unit, Parramatta. 
The Tribunal referred in its reasons to s 53 of the Act and the Tribunal's approach to the issue of adequacy of search in cases heard under the predecessor law to GIPA, the Freedom of Information Act 1989 (FOIA). In 2008 the Court of Appeal ruled that FOIA, properly construed, did not give the Tribunal jurisdiction to examine inadequacy of search. The provisions now found in GIPA respond to that gap in FOIA. The approach taken to this issue in the Tribunal under GIPA has had regard to the old FOIA decisions. See, for example, Beer v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2013] NSWADT 243, and its reference to the summary of relevant given in Camilleri v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Force [2012] NSWADT 5.
The Tribunal concluded that there was 'no evidence of further searches the respondent could reasonably undertake to attempt to locate any additional documents falling within the scope of the application': [18]. 
The Tribunal then examined the agency's objection to release of the Information Report the subject of the claim of a conclusive presumption against access. The Tribunal considered an open affidavit provided by Sergeant Kaine of the agency's Counter Terrorism and Special Tactics Command which was brief. The agency also filed confidentially with the Tribunal the document in issue. The Tribunal dealt with the matter briefly in its reasons. It is constrained in the detail it can give of evidence, in particular the document in issue, going to an overriding public interest against disclosure by the nature of a dispute of this kind, and the provisions of the Act (see s 107). 
Finally, the Tribunal reviewed the contents of the two documents the subject of deletions, and upheld the agency's decision. 
A party has a right to make an internal appeal against a final decision of the Tribunal of the present kind 'on any question of law'. The appeal may be made 'on other grounds' if the Appeal Panel grants permission (or 'leave') for that to occur. See Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, s 80. 
The appellant's notice of appeal was completed in hand-writing by him, and is affected (as was his original access application) by the limited extent of his ability to express himself in writing. The agency's notice in reply to the appeal noted that no question of law was identified, and that it seemed that the appellant wished to put in issue the merits of the decision. We agree with the agency's assessment of the contents of the notice of appeal.
The appellant did not file any written submissions, the first step in the directions given in relation to the appeal which was fixed for hearing on 11 September 2014. We are not surprised by that given the literacy difficulty to which we have referred. To its credit, the agency took no objection to that omission. The agency copied to the appellant on 5 September 2014 the open material it relied on in relation to the appeal. It included its evidence and submissions to the Tribunal below in relation to the adequacy of search issue and the two documents the subject of deletions. The Commissioner filed separately with the Appeal Panel the closed evidence on which it had relied below. 
The parties both appeared at our first hearing at 10 am on 11 September 2014. The appellant handed up a hand written letter to the agency dated 11 August 2014, in effect repeating his request that he be given access to all documents held about him without restriction, and questioning whether all relevant documents had been found. 
In the course of that hearing we raised concerns as to whether the Tribunal had accurately formulated the law governing the adequacy of search question, and whether it had any relevant evidence. It seemed to us that there were arguable questions of law. The agency agreed to file additional submissions. We adjourned the matter to 9.30 am on 9 October 2014 for a short hearing of 30 minutes. The agency appeared and addressed its written submissions on the issues we had raised (filed 7 October 2014). 
The appellant did not appear. We heard the agency's submissions, and reserved our decision. The appellant contacted the registry about 10.15 am (a common starting time for Appeal Panel matters), advising that he was unable to attend, and sought an adjournment. He was advised of these events and that a decision had been reserved. We decided to grant leave to extend the appeal to further consideration of the adequacy of search issue as, for the reasons that follow, we considered that the Tribunal had erred in law in its dealing with that issue. The further hearing was held on 27 October 2014.
As noted, the Tribunal dealt with the review application on the papers. The agency relied on the affidavit of Senior Sergeant Fam. The affidavit contains 14 paragraphs. All of them are descriptive of the history of the agency's deliberations and the outcome of its deliberations. 
Section 53 provides:
Only one, para 11 bears on the issue of adequacy of search. Sgt Fam states:
This evidence is summarised at para [11] of the Tribunal's reasons. 
The Tribunal then continues:
The Tribunal then referred to some of the FOIA case-law statements on the approach to be adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with adequacy of search objections.
Finally, the Tribunal concluded at para [18]:
It will be seen that s 53 commences by confining limiting the agency's obligation to respond to a request to information held by it at the time of receipt of the request (sub-s (1)).This protection against having to look for information once held but no longer in the primary systems of the agency is buttressed by sub-s (4), which makes it unnecessary for the agency to search electronic back-up systems (subject to narrow exceptions). 
Importantly, sub-s (2) states that the agency 'must undertake reasonable searches as may be necessary' to find the requested information, and must do so 'using the most efficient means reasonably available to the agency'. The latter obligation is amplified by the obligation imposed by sub-s (3). As already noted, sub-s (4) protects the agency from having to make searches of electronic back up systems. Sub-s (5) contains the important qualification that searches that involve a 'substantial and unreasonable diversion of resources' need not be undertaken. We do not understand there to have been any claim based on sub-s (5) in this case. 
Sgt Fam's affidavit addressed none of the three matters relevant to this case: the nature of any searches that were undertaken (including for example to what databases they were directed), nor did it refer to the means used (the second limb of sub-s (2)) and whether systems of electronic retrieval were utilised (sub-s (3)). 
There is some recognition of this difficulty in the Tribunal's observation at para [18] - 'although there was little evidence provided by the respondent about the extent of the search'. 
The agency noted in its submissions to the Appeal Panel that the Tribunal also had before it the booklet containing the full text of the documents in dispute. Some additional detail can be inferred from the booklet, i.e. that the COPS system was interrogated, and the police intelligence system was interrogated (the subject of Sgt Kaine's open affidavit).
In our view, all the affidavit attested to was the fact of a search. In our view, the Tribunal had no evidence addressing the matters to which s 53, especially sub-ss (2) and (3) give attention, other than inferences that might be drawn from the material found in the confidential booklet. In our opinion, the Tribunal erred in law in making a finding based on no evidence. 
Error of Law. The question that s 53(2) requires the Tribunal to assess is whether such searches were made as may have been necessary to find the government information applied for. When the request is a global one, a practical perspective should be adopted, and guidance can, we think be drawn from the FOIA period cases referred to in Beer and Camilleri. 
The focus of this enquiry required by s 53 is the administrative steps taken by the agency's search officers. The officers can give a concise account of the steps taken, but that account can not go so far as to simply assert that what was done (undescribed) was reasonable. 
While we accept that the Tribunal in the words it used in [12] was seeking to put things simply, we consider that it is not satisfactory to describe the 
Finally, we emphasise that the agency bears a strict onus of proof in relation to its reviewable decision under s 105, and this onus applies to decisions of the kind under notice here. The onus cannot, as we see it, simply be satisfied by a self-serving statement that reasonable searches have been undertaken. 
In matters of internal administration of the present kind, it is important that the Tribunal be seen to insist on discharge of the onus. Access applicants will rarely be in a position to see inside the walls of the agency, and have any direct knowledge or evidence of what steps were taken to search for the information they seek.
If the Appeal Panel was minded to uphold the appeal on this issue, the agency asked that the Appeal Panel go on and dispose of the matter. We concluded after the hearing that this was the preferable course, rather than remitting the matter. We directed the Commissioner to file and serve an affidavit addressing the matters to which s 53 refers. 
We reconvened on 27 October 2014 for a short hearing. Both parties were present. 
The Commissioner filed a further affidavit from Senior Sergeant Fam, sworn 24 October 2014. Mr Zoppo for the Commissioner took the appellant through the affidavit. 
Senior Seargent Fam stated that records maintained by the NSW Police Force are maintained on the Computerised Operational Policing System (COPS) which is the primary system, the NSW TRIM system (recording file movements and the like), the Criminal Records Section's microfilm records in relation to records prior to 1994, NSW Police archives (hardcopy), and the FOI database that records applications and determinations made under the former Act. 
She referred to the initial search in response to the appellant's application, and its outcome resulting in the release of several documents on 23 July 2013. She referred to the further searches undertaken following the planning meeting held at the Tribunal on 19 November 2013. She explained the methodology of the searches undertaken across the systems mentioned above. She expressed the opinion that the searches were reasonable in the circumstances, and stated that they utilised systems and resources available to the Police Force to retrieve the information sought by the appellant. 
We are satisfied that the evidence now provided by Snr Sgt Fam addresses the factual matters to which s 53(2) and 53(3) are directed, and we are satisfied that the searches undertaken were reasonable in the circumstances.
The appeal also puts in issue the Tribunal's decisions in relation to the redacted documents and the document the subject of the conclusive presumption.
Neither the notice of appeal nor our scrutiny of the reasons suggested any questions of law to which we should give attention. 
The Tribunal engaged in the weighing task required by the Act in relation to the question of whether the deletions were justified on the ground of protection of the personal information of other persons. It reached its conclusion as to the applicability of the conclusive presumption in reliance of Sergeant Kaine's affidavit. We have examined the affidavit. Its contents provided evidence upon which the Tribunal could rely in reaching the conclusion it did. All of these matters involved findings of fact. In our view, it would not be reasonable to give leave to re-open this part of the appellant's case. 
At the hearing on 27 October 2014 the appellant was informed that the document the subject of the conclusive presumption was an intelligence document. 
The appellant raised concern about an incident in 1996 where he had been spoken to by police. Mr Zoppo noted that the relevant document had been destroyed, and removed from the active system, and the only record of it now existed in archives. This is a separate record from the one that is the subject of the conclusive presumption.
############# I'm default separator ##########71
COSTS - Appeal against order relating to interlocutory motion - whethershould have been deferred until conclusion of proceedings- scope of discretion- contested application for transfer of proceedings to District Court -application granted - proportionateorder - no question of law raised - appealdismissed.
The appellant company is a home builder. The respondents are individuals who performed rendering work for the appellant at two building sites. The appellant lodged a claim against the respondents for defective work in the home building jurisdiction of the Consumer Trader Tenancy Tribunal (as it was then known (CTTT)). In respect of work at one site the claim was of the order of $240,000; and in respect of the other site, of the order of $40,000. (We note that the second respondent has not actively participated in the proceedings. The fourth respondent is named in respect of the first claim, the higher claim (HB10/47685) but not the second claim (HB10/47969). Our references to the respondents should be read in that light.)
The respondents applied for the proceedings to be transferred to the District Court. The application was successful but not on their primary ground. The respondents had raised equitable estoppel in reply to a key claim that they had failed to install the appropriate kind of metal angles in laying the render. They failed in their submission that the limits imposed by law on the Tribunal's jurisdiction prevented it from dealing with a claim of this kind. However, they also had made a number of other objections to the competence of the appellant's claim remaining in the Tribunal, in particular in relation to the effect of statutory limitation periods governing proceedings in the Tribunal. The appellants' were substantially successful in relation to those objections, and the Tribunal, therefore granted the order they had sought transfer of the proceedings to the District Court.
The Tribunal's reasons on these issues are lengthy: see Draybi Pty Ltd v Diab and ors [2014] NSWCATCD 67 (31 January 2014), and were issued seven months after the hearing was held. At the end of the reasons, the Tribunal alluded to the issue of the costs of the proceedings and expressed the following provisional view:
The Tribunal made directions for the filing of submissions, dealt with them on the papers, and decided, contrary to its provisional view, to make a costs order substantially in favour of the respondents, as follows:
The Tribunal reduced the order sought by the respondents by a third to recognise that the appellant had been successful on one of their points of objection to the transfer, namely that it was within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to deal with the equitable estoppel point. The Tribunal was satisfied that the Act absolutely barred it from considering a negligence claim made by the appellant because it was time barred under the law governing the home building jurisdiction of the Tribunal. It was not time barred under the limitations laws applying to the courts. 
The primary hearing occurred in the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (CTTT) prior to its abolition and absorption into this Tribunal. The Tribunal considered that it was bound to apply the law that had governed applications for the costs of proceedings in the CTTT under the now repealed Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2002, having regard to the transitional provisions of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act). We agree with the Tribunal's assessment, and it was not in dispute in the appeal. The provisions relevant to these proceedings are: 
Under the CTTT Act:
The appellant now appeals against these orders. The appeal is made under the provisions of the NCAT Act. The appellant has an unqualified right to appeal in relation to a question of law: s 80(2)(b). The appeal may be made on 'other grounds' but that right is qualified. This appeal raises questions of law, and applies for leave to be heard on other grounds. We will deal first with the questions of law aspect of the appeal. 
The appellant's principal submission is that the provisional view expressed by the Tribunal in its decision issued in January should have been maintained. It contends that it is premature to dispose of the costs issues in connection with the costs of the transfer application until the final outcome of the proceedings is known.
A difficulty in this case is that the question of law grounds as originally formulated in the notice of appeal filed 10 July 2014 (subsequently amended in a minor way, 19 August 2014) do not correspond to the way in which the questions of law were formulated in the appellant's written submissions filed 29 August 2014 and the oral submissions made at hearing on 18 September 2014. Understandably, the respondents replied in their written submissions filed 8 September 2014 to the grounds as set out in the notice of appeal. 
In combination the notice of appeal and the written and oral submissions raised the following possible errors of law: 
Adequacy of Reasons. The objections as formulated in the grounds of appeal that appeared in the notice of appeal were, in effect, reworked by the appellant's submissions into an alleged failure to give adequate reasons. That the tribunal has a legal duty to give adequate reasons is well accepted. On the other hand the reasons need not be elaborate in dealing with an exercise of discretion of the kind that the costs discretion is. In this instance the member set out in considerable detail his reasons for making the order that he did. He acknowledged that the respondents had only been successful on one of their two bases for the application for transfer. As the appellant noted, the order made was not the primary order sought by the application (outright dismissal of the applicant's claim) but the alternative order (transfer). 
The appellant suggested that the Tribunal had failed to give adequate reasons for choosing to make a costs order in circumstances where the application only had success on one of its grounds. This is a familiar situation for courts and tribunals exercising a costs discretion. It is not unusual for success to be achieved on one of the many bases on which a case or a procedural application rests. 
In our view it is clearly a matter for the judgment of the determiner of the costs application as to how the balance of success within the confines of a case or application are dealt with. 
Unreasonableness. Misapplication of relevant principles. The costs discretion conferred by reg 20(4) is broad in character. The Tribunal had regard to one circumstance in its decision to award costs, the fact that the application had been successful. In our view it was open to the Tribunal to proceed in that way. 
It referred frequently in its reasons, as did the parties in their submissions to us, to the usual rule in the ordinary courts, that costs follow the event. We should note that the jurisdiction exercised on this occasion was a statutory one as set out in reg 20(4) and conditioned by the terms of s 53 of the CTTT Act and the objectives of that Tribunal. A clause such as reg 20(4) should not, we think, be read as though it simply introduces into the tribunal environment a rule as routinised as the one applied in ordinary civil litigation in the courts. 
In relation to the exercise of the discretion, the appellant argued that it would have been better had the Tribunal not made a final costs order on this aspect of the proceedings at this stage. It would have preferred an order that the costs of the successful motion be reserved or be costs in the cause. While often interlocutory applications are dealt with in that way, it is a matter of discretion for the tribunal to decide whether it is appropriate to make a costs order in relation to an interlocutory matter. As counsel for the respondent pointed out, as this was a circumstance where the case was leaving the Tribunal it made sense for the Tribunal to dispose of the one issue that remained before it, and to have that done by the member who had presided in the matter. The appellant did not draw our attention to any law that might limit the Tribunal in the way suggested. This is not question of law. 
Both parties referred to the recent observations of the Appeal Panel in Obieta v Australian College of Professionals Pty Ltd  [2014] NSWCATAP 38 at  [31]- [33], on the limited circumstances in which a challenge to a finding of fact or the exercise of a judicial discretion can be undone on error of law grounds. Counsel for the respondents referred to statements made by appeal judges in some recent cases involving appeals from jurisdictions of this Tribunal where appellants had sought to have decisions as to the facts or exercises of discretion undone on error of law grounds. See PT Ltd v Spuds Surf Chatswood Pty Ltd [2013] NSWCA 446 at  [113]- [116] per Sackville AJA; and Lo v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (2013) 85 NSWLR 86 per Macfarlan JA at [49]. The latter remarks explain succinctly why challenges to weight of evidence do not raise a question of law. The statements of law made in the cases cited here are familiar ones, and draw on well-established lines of authority. The submissions of counsel for the respondents dealt comprehensively with the relevant law, and we will not repeat that material here.
In our view, there were no errors of law identified in the way the Tribunal exercised its discretion.
Section 80(2)(b) of the NCAT Act provides that an appeal may be made with the leave of the Appeal Panel on any grounds other than questions of law. The leave power is constrained in the case of appeals from decisions of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, the position here, by the provisions of cl 12(1) of Schedule 4, i.e.
In the notice of appeal, and in the later written submissions, the appellant gave reasons as to why leave should be granted. The appellant asserted that it had suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice, because the costs discretion was not fair and equitable (ground (a) above). The appellant's written submissions mainly consisted of a narrative of the history of the proceedings and included some questioning of the substance of the principal decision of 31 January 2014. There was no appeal lodged in relation to that decision, and we will not reopen the points of substance. Once these parts of the submissions are excluded from consideration, there is little left by way of submissions that the decision was not fair and equitable. There are four paragraphs that appear on the last two pages of the 12 pages of the written submissions. 
As we have already noted, the Tribunal was engaged in a not-unusual exercise of discretion in a matter where both parties had enjoyed some success. It was open to it to make the proportionate order that it settled on.
We are not satisfied that the finalisation of the costs issue as it relates to the transfer decision gives rise to any substantial injustice to the appellant. If, as the appellant would hope, the proceedings before the District Court result in an order in its favour, it is open, in our opinion, to the appellant to ask for account to be taken by the Court in any costs order it makes of the costs the appellant incurred in relation to the successful transfer application. The respondents' submission in reply, we expect, would be that it was successful in having the matter transferred, and it was fair for its costs of that application to be met regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceedings in the District Court.
The respondents applied for their costs of the appeal. The provision relevant to the costs of the appeal is s 60 of the NCAT Act. It was the usual practice of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal Appeal Panel to treat a failed appeal as a circumstance strongly favouring an order for costs, as a successful party at first instance has been put to the time and expense of a second round of litigation. 
If the appellant wishes to be heard on the costs question, it should notify the Registry within 7 days of the publication of this decision and a date for a short oral hearing, possibly by telephone, will be arranged. If there is no such request, we will proceed to exercise the discretion, and issue an order within a further 14 days. 
############# I'm default separator ##########72
Claim for rent abatement- s45 Claim for return of bond
There are two appeals before the Tribunal, AP 14/0043 and AP 14/0250. Both concern premises 30/500 President Avenue Sutherland which at relevant times were the subject of a residential tenancy agreement between the respondent as landlord and the appellant as tenant.
The parties provided written submissions and the appellant was also given leave to make oral submissions which the appeal panel has also considered. An order was made for determination of the appeals on the papers.
Appeal AP 14/0043 concerns orders made by this Tribunal in matters RT 13/63639 on 20 February 2014 and appeal AP 14/0250 is an appeal against an order made by the Tribunal on 19 June 2014 in proceedings RT 14/19817.
On 20 February 2014 the Tribunal constituted by Ms M Eftimou dismissed the appellant's application for abatement of rent under s45 of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2010 (Act) and the application for reimbursement of the cost of a shower head. 
The appellant challenged the decision on the basis that the Member failed to have regard to evidence filed, in particular in relation to the photographs of mould found to be in the premises. The Tribunal made two findings: (1) That the Tribunal had, in previous proceedings concerning excessive rent, determined the rent payable, including having regard to the mould and had fixed the rent at $365 per week. Accordingly the dispute concerning the mould could not be raised again in application RT 13/63639 as it was the subject of an earlier decision; and 
The learned Member gave in our view more than concise and adequate reasons for her decision and the grounds of appeal have not been established.
The Notice of Appeal in relation to the decision on 20 February 2014 does not as it seems to us identify a question of law and none seems to arise on the papers we have seen. However, we detect no flaws in the Tribunal's reasoning processes and see no reason why an appeal on the merits should be allowed.
Appeal AP 14-0250 relates to a decision by Mr B Howe on 19 June 2014. 
The only issue for determination in the application before Member Howe was whether the appellant was entitled to return of the whole of the bond or whether the landlord was entitled to be paid part of the bond to reimburse the landlord for sheriff fees of $315.00 and locksmith fees of $220.00 incurred by the landlord obtaining possession and issuing a warrant for possession.
The appellant said she should not have had the fees deducted from the bond and paid to the landlord. However she does not suggest that the landlord had not incurred the fees nor has the appellant provided any reason why the fees should not otherwise be paid.
While the appellant says she had paid rent prior to 19 June 2014 the appellant has not sought to appeal the order for possession, the only issue before Member Howe being whether, on the application of the tenant, all the bond should be paid to the tenant or whether the landlord was entitled to be paid from the bond the sheriff fees and the locksmith fees totalling $535.00;
The Member found, on the concession by the landlord, that the rent had been overpaid in the sum of $573.54. The Member accepted that the landlord agreed to separately repay the rent and the Member ordered return of the balance of the bond to the tenant after deduction of the fees. 
No suggestion was made by the appellant in this appeal that the overpaid rent has not in fact been refunded. 
Again in our opinion adequate findings and reasons were given and made by the Tribunal.
The Notice of Appeal identified no question of law and we see no flaw in the reasons of the Tribunal which would justify a rehearing on the merits.
Accordingly we order: (1) That the appeal against the order made on 20 February 2014 in matter RT 13/63639 be dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########73
PRIVACY OF HEALTH INFORMATION - Collection, use and disclosure ofemployee's health information in connection with a workers compensationclaim -whether compliance with Health Privacy Principles - application for review ofconduct dismissed - appeal - whether errorsof law - findings as to compliancewith HPPs 1, 2, 10 and 11 ones of fact - whether compliance with HPP 4,governing notices as tocollection practices and related matters - Tribunalerred in law - appeal extended to merits - finding of non-compliance byorganisation.Health Records and Information Privacy Act 2002.
This appeal concerns practices by an employer and self-insurer, Rail Corporation NSW (RailCorp), in connection with the management of personal health information of a claimant for workers compensation. 
RailCorp is bound by the Health Records and Information Privacy Act 2002 (HRIPA). HRIPA provides, s 21, that complaints relating to public sector agencies that are subject to HRIPA are to be handled in the way provided in the Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 (PPIPA). Accordingly the appellant applied on 16 November 2012 to RailCorp for an internal review of conduct that she considered may have breached various obligations imposed by HRIPA. She and RailCorp were in dispute at the time over a claim she had made for continuing compensation based on alleged exacerbation of a work-related injury.
In its internal review report dated 23 January 2013, RailCorp found that it had not breached any of its obligations under HRIPA. The appellant then applied, under s 55 of PPIPA, for review of RailCorp's conduct by the Tribunal. The Tribunal dismissed her application. She now appeals against the Tribunal's decision. 
Because the decision under appeal was made by the former Administrative Decisions Tribunal, the appeal is one that is governed by the provisions relating to appeal then in force, in particular Administrative Decisions Tribunal Act, s 113. See further, Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, Sched 1 cll 9(1)(c), 9(2) and 10.
Accordingly, an appeal may be made on a 'question of law' as of right, and may, with the leave of the Appeal Panel, extended to the merits. 
The appeal was lodged on 3 January 2014, and used, appropriately, the old ADT appeal form. The appellant does not have legal representation. The form was not completed with clarity as to whether a question of law appeal was being pressed, or whether the matters raised in the notice of appeal only went to the merits, for which leave was required. The case has proceeded on the basis that it is an appeal that seeks to raise questions of law, and seeks leave to extend the appeal to the merits. 
As previously noted, the conduct of which the appellant complains arose in connection with a workers compensation dispute between her and her then employer, RailCorp.
She commenced work with RailCorp in January 2004 as a transit officer. She was injured in the course of her work on 27 August 2004, suffering a back injury while she and other transit officers were trying to apprehend a man who was causing a disturbance at a railway station. RailCorp accepted liability provisionally for that injury. She returned to work on 13 September 2004, and continued to experience back pain. In August 2005, she transferred to a different position, that of an occupational health and safety officer. She continued to suffer from back pain. RailCorp disputed ongoing liability, though, on several occasions, after review, it decided to reinstate her claim provisionally, and continued to make weekly payments for ongoing treatment expenses. 
As noted earlier, RailCorp is a self insurer. On 15 December 2011 it issued a notice under s 74 of the Workplace Injury Management and Workers Compensation Act 1998 (WIMWC Act) formally disputing the claim her claim for injury to the lumbar spine sustained on 27 August 2004 made pursuant to the provisions of the Workers Compensation Act 1987 (WC Act), and provided a summary of its reasons. In September 2012 the appellant commenced proceedings for an expedited assessment in the Workers Compensation Commission (WCC). A conciliation/arbitration conference was held before an arbitrator (Mr B Batchelor) on 11 June 2013. 
RailCorp submitted that she suffered from a back condition (a degenerative condition at her L4/5 spine) that pre-existed the event of 27 August 2004, and that the various exacerbations that had occurred to her condition from 2004 onwards were as a result of activity engaged in at that time and not related to the injury of 27 August 2004. It submitted that the effects of the 27 August 2004 injury had ceased by the end of 2005. In support of its case, RailCorp referred to clinical notes from 1999, and assessments made by doctors to whom it had referred the appellant.
On 27 June 2013 the WCC issued its determination. The WCC found that she had since 27 August 2004 suffered from exacerbations of back pain as a result of injury to her lumbar spine on that date, and continued to suffer from the effects of that injury. The WCC granted her application for a cost of treatment and expenses order under s 60 of the WC Act. She left RailCorp in 2013.
HRIPA requires organisations to observe a series of Health Privacy Principles (HPPs) in the way it handles health information. RailCorp is an organisation within the meaning of the Act. The Tribunal was satisfied that RailCorp had complied in relation to the conduct raised with the five HPPs in issue before it, HPP 1, 2, 4, 10 and 11. 
HPP 1 limits the purposes of collection of health information by organisations. HPP 2 requires organisations to ensure that information that is collected is relevant, not excessive, accurate and not intrusive. HPP 4 places obligations on organisations to ensure that individuals whose health information is collected are made generally aware of a range of matters relating to the agency's practices. HPP 10 places constraints on the use of health information other than for the primary purpose for which it was collected, with it being permissible to use health information for a secondary purpose in specified circumstances, one of which is where the individual has given consent to the secondary purpose. HPP 11 places similar constraints on the disclosure of health information to other organisations and bodies.
Original Complaint in relation to breach of HRIPA. In her original complaint to RailCorp over the handling of her health information, she noted that she had become aware of the conduct that concerned her from material received from her workers compensation solicitors on 25 September 2012 that showed that RailCorp had approached two medical centres where she had been a patient and asked for her complete medical history (Warringah Mall Medical Centre where she was a patient until 2009; Dee Why Grand Medical Centre, 2010-2012). She learnt that RailCorp had provided the medical centres with a form bearing her signature as proof of her consent. Her complaint in essence was that the making of requests for her medical history were general in scope and went beyond the specific issue of her back condition and that the consent relied upon was not a consent that should have been relied upon for that purpose. 
Further Matter. Before the Tribunal a second matter was canvassed. RailCorp provided many of the records that it had obtained from the medical centres to the WCC in connection with its hearing. She raised her objections with the WCC. She claimed that the records had been collected on the basis of an inapplicable consent, and that they should be destroyed and not used for the purposes of the hearing. Pre-hearing directions were made in relation to these concerns by the WCC on 13 February 2013. 
We indicated to parties during submissions on the first hearing date (confined to a two hour session), 2 May 2014, that we were concerned about the Tribunal's treatment of the question of compliance with HPP 4; and considered that its reasons were unsatisfactory. We invited further submissions from RailCorp on the issue. In effect, we extended this aspect of the hearing to the merits. We were unable to complete the hearing that day, and resumed on 26 June 2014. 
In the reasons that follow we will first deal with the issues raised in relation to the Tribunal's rulings that RailCorp complied with HPPs 1, 2, 10 and 11. We have dismissed the appeal as it relates to HPPs 1, 2, 10 and 11. We will deal separately with the issues raised in relation to RailCorp's compliance with HPP 4. 
This is the matter that was the subject of the original complaint. The Tribunal noted in its reasons that the medical records collected by RailCorp were 330 pages in length (the appellant at hearing put the number at 374 pages). The Tribunal noted that in the appellant's opinion much it was highly personal, highly sensitive and confidential in nature, and had no bearing at all on the claim. This caused her, she said, considerable stress and led to a breakdown of her relationship with her treating doctor. 
She said that had she known of the requests for her medical information she would have objected to the width of the request and any possible release. She referred to the stricter position that applies when subpoenas are issued. These comments are relevant to the HPP 4 issue which, as noted, we deal with separately below. 
On 18 April 2012, RailCorp sent identical letters to the appellant's current nominated medical practitioner at the Dee Why Grand Medical Centre, and to the practice that she had attended prior to 2009, the Warringah Mall Medical Centre. 
The letters were in common form. They commenced by referring to her workers compensation claim, the date of the injury and made the following request:
The enclosed 'worker's consent' consisted of the authorisation that appears at the foot of the WorkCover NSW Medical Certificate that had been signed by the appellant on 23 November 2011. The authorisation stated:
The form named the appellant's then current treating doctor at Dee Why. RailCorp relied on the reference to 'other treating practitioners' as providing consent to obtain records from her previous treating doctors at Warringah. In its internal review report RailCorp noted that the letters of 18 April 2012 were the last in a series of letters seeking information in relation to her back condition. 
HPPs 1 and 2: HPPs 1 and 2 provide in full:
The reviewer noted that the consent was expressed to be for the purpose of managing the signatory's injury and workers compensation claim. She noted that in that signed certificate referred under point 2 to 'Medical Certification, Diagnosis: L4/5 disc injury'. She referred to earlier letters to the medical centres, which had produced medical information that indicated the appearance of a back related condition that preceded the date of injury and stated that this information, 'necessitating a wider request to obtain further information considered highly relevant to the assessment of the claim.' The reviewer considered that the collections were necessary for the purpose of RailCorp fulfilling its insurer functions under the NSW workers compensation legislation, and therefore HPP 1 was not infringed.
As to the HPP 2 question, the reviewer referred to the scope of the authorisation given by the signed certificate and also to the authorisation given by her soon after the injury. The authorisation provided by her on 28 August 2004 stated: 
While the reviewer considered that the authorisations relied upon were sufficient to justify the collection of the clinical records, she did state:
The appellant sought to draw on this concession to argue that it amounted to an admission that HPP2 had not been met by the organisation. 
The Tribunal was satisfied that RailCorp had complied with HPP 1 and HPP2, and said in conclusion on the HPP 2 issue:
The appellant challenged the Tribunal's conclusion that the collection was for a lawful purpose, and referred to s 270 of WIMWC Act. 
This provision deals with the obligations of an insurer who commences weekly payments, and allows the insurer to require from the worker a medical certificate as to the worker's incapacity for work and a form of authority authorising providers of medical services and treatment, and rehabilitation services, and the like 'to give the insurer information regarding the treatment or service provided or the worker's medical condition or treatment relevant to the injury'. 
She submitted that the 2011 certificate on which RailCorp had relied was issued under s 270, and did not comply with it. She argued that s 270 confined the meaning of 'injury' to the harm she suffered on 27 August 2004. She submitted that it did not supply an authority for the global requests that the letters of 18 April 2012 made. She expressed concern that aspects of her health history which she saw as having no bearing on the workers compensation dispute, and no tenable connection had been made known to RailCorp and the WCC. Further, even if HPP1(a) ('lawful purpose' etc), HPP 1(b) was not met, in that the wider collection was not 'reasonably necessary' for that purpose. 
It will be seen that the terms of both HPP 1(a) and (b) are broad. The language of both provisions is simple, and the task required of the Tribunal is essentially to make findings of fact. The Tribunal engaged in the task required of it. 
The Tribunal was not bound in the strict way suggested by the appellant's submissions to limit its consideration to the terms of s 270 of the WIMWC Act. The determination of the 'lawful purpose' of an organisation allows for a broad examination of the circumstances of the case, and a consideration of the usual obligations of the organisation in the particular context, here an organisation that is both the employer and the insurer, dealing with the management of a workers compensation claims. There was evidence that the appellant had a degenerative back condition that predated the injury. The WCC in its determination accepted that she had been consistent and open throughout in her dealings with WorkCover in relation to the issue. The WCC's reasons noted that she had received treatment going back to 1993. However, contrary to RailCorp's case, it did not accept that the degenerative condition had given rise to back pain prior to the event of 27 August 2004. 
The Tribunal found, in essence, that RailCorp had as its lawful purpose the management of the claim, and that the broad collection of prior treatment records was justified given the doubt RailCorp reasonably held as to the whether the ongoing condition was attributable to the workplace injury or attributable to a private health condition unrelated to the event that resulted in the injury. This is a commonplace issue in workers compensation administration. The Tribunal's findings are ones of fact, only capable of disturbance as errors of law on very narrow grounds. The same applies in relation to the Tribunal's conclusion that the collection was 'reasonably necessary' for the purpose. 
In its reasons at [23]-[33] the Tribunal considered the appellant's submission in relation to the validity of the consent. It did not explain to which HPPs it saw the issue as relevant. HPPs 1 and 2 do not refer expressly to the issue of subject consent. They focus on the lawfulness of the purpose for which information is collected, the lawfulness of the means used and the scope of the collection. The absence of consent might go to lawfulness, but that would depend on the circumstances of the case, and the power under which the organisation has acted to collect the information. 
In her submissions appellant also drew support for her criticisms of the way in which consents given by her in 2004 and 2011 had been used from the changes that RailCorp had now made in relation to the texts of the authorisations and consents it obtain. She said that as a result of a WorkCover investigation of what had occurred in her case, RailCorp was directed to change its letters of request and consent forms. These concerns, along with some others, are outlined by the Tribunal at [9] and [10] of its reasons.
While subject consent is not a matter directly referred to in HPPs 1 and 2, it is directly referred to in HPPs 4, 10 and 11. 
In responding to the appellant's case that the authorisations she had given were invalid, the Tribunal expressly related its findings to HPPs 10 and 11. The Tribunal stated:
The appellant reiterated on appeal her arguments that the authorisations given in the certificates and the declaration did not authorise the extent of collection that occurred on this occasion. In our view, the Tribunal was engaged in making findings of fact on these points and no error of law arises.
HPP 10: HPP 10 provides first:
It then specifies a number of exceptions, the ones possibly relevant to this case being:
In the internal review report, the RailCorp reviewer concluded that that the information it had obtained from the two medical practices had been used for the primary purpose of its collection, i.e. that is to fulfil the insurer's functions under workers compensation legislation. The reviewer did not concede that the information was used for a secondary purpose, relying in this instance of RailCorp's dual status in relation to workers compensation claims of being the employer and the (self) insurer.
As already noted the Tribunal found that the consent exception applied in any case. 
At [37] and [38] the Tribunal upheld RailCorp's primary claim that the information collected was used for its primary purpose, to which consent is not applicable. It stated:
RailCorp's evidence in the case included detailed affidavits from two senior case managers, first, Ms Griffen, who explained the case management process for claims seen as problematic and where there is a history that may point to a cause not connected to the workplace; and secondly from Ms Hobson (formerly Faulks), who referred in detail to the history of this case, and the communications with treating doctors, the provision of material to the WCC, and the return of documents. 
The Tribunal had evidence before it on the issue to which HPP 10 is addressed. Its findings, above, are to be read in conjunction with that evidence. It was open to it to find as it did, and the points we made in relation to the findings with respect to HPPs 1 and 2 apply. There is no error of law.
HPP 11: HPP 11 provides first, like HPP 10:
It then specifies a number of exceptions, the one possibly relevant to this case being:
The Tribunal said:
As already noted the Tribunal found that the consent exception would have applied in any case. Again, in our view the Tribunal had relevant evidence, and was engaged in a fact-finding process, and our observations in relation to its findings in respect of HPP 1, 2 and 10 apply. There was no error of law. 
HPP 4: HPP 4 is an important provision in the scheme of privacy and data protection laws. It requires organisations to have practices which make an individual reasonably aware of why it is collecting information, what it does with the information, and what rights the individual has to see and correct that information. It is a notice provision. 
Such a notice "helps promote transparency about an organisation's collection and handling of personal and health information. It also informs individuals about important rights and obligations related to the provision and access to this information" (Victorian Privacy Commissioner, Service Agreement Information Kit for Non-funded Organisations, 3.17.3). Notices of this kind are a key aspect of many laws that seek to promote transparency of organisational practices, and to inform affected persons of their rights including in this instance the right to access any data collected. 
Australia's data protection laws have as their conceptual origin the OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Data Flows, issued 1980 (see Long Title, Commonwealth Privacy Act 1988, No 119, as enacted). The content of those Guidelines was in turn heavily influenced by the work at that time of the European Union - as to which, see now European Union Directive on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal Data and on the Free Movement of such Data, 1995/46/EC, with a notice standard set out in Article 10. 
HPP 4 deals first with the requirements that apply to a direct collection of information from the individual (HPP 4(1)), and then deals with the requirements that apply to a non-direct collection, a collection from a third party, the case here (HPP4(2)). 
HPP 4 provides:
It will be seen that the obligation in HPP 4(1) is cast in stricter terms than HPP 4(2). Under HPP 4(1) the organisation 'must ... take steps that are reasonable in the circumstances to ensure that the individual is aware [of matters (a) to (f)]. HPP 4(2), the provision relevant to this case states that the organisation 'must take any steps that are reasonable in the circumstances to ensure that the individual is generally aware of the matters listed [in (a) to (f)]', subject to certain qualifications not relevant to this case (emphasis added).
RailCorp did not rely on any special notice or form that referred to its obligations under HRIPA and gave an itemised account of the matters to which HPP 4 refers. In its internal review report, the reviewer referred to the terms of the consent of 23 November 2011 and two consents of a similar kind during that year. The reviewer also referred the declaration given 28 August 2004. In that respect, she noted the following paragraphs (additional to those we set out earlier in these reasons):
The reviewer did not express any final conclusion on whether the above material met the obligation imposed on RailCorp by HPP 4. 
In its reasons the Tribunal said:
It will be seen that the Tribunal relied on HPP 4(a) as excepting RailCorp from its obligation under HPP 4(2), i.e.:
The Tribunal provides no explanation as to how the authorisations of 2011 or the declaration of 2004 provide an 'express' consent to the organisation not complying with HPP 4(2). 
As noted above, we indicated to the parties on our first session that we regarded the decision in relation to compliance with HPP 4 as unsatisfactory. 
In our view, the Tribunal's ruling in relation to HPP 4 misconstrues the meaning of HPP 4(2)(a). The provision is to be read strictly. It is an exception to an important right. It referred to no evidence that such an express consent had been furnished. Accordingly RailCorp needed to show that its conduct satisfied the requirements of HPP 4(2) itself.
It is an established rule of statutory construction that where a legislative provision places an obligation on a party and also provides for a distinct exception, or exceptions to that obligation, the onus of proving the exception on the balance of probabilities lies with the person seeking to rely on it: see for example Dowling v Bowie [1952] HCA 63;  (1952) 86 CLR 136. 
In the case of HPP 4(1) there is a requirement on an agency to take positive steps to ensure that individuals whose health information is collected are made generally aware of a range of matters relating to the agency's practices. However, HPP 4(2) provides for circumstances in which the agency need not take those steps. If an agency asserts that the circumstances of the matter fall within any one of the exceptions provided, the burden of establishing the exception falls on the agency. Generally, it is not sufficient that the agency merely makes the assertion that the exception applies. It will be necessary that the agency present evidence to prove the exception on the balance of probabilities. If for example, as in this matter, an agency asserts that express consent has been given, it is for the agency to present evidence of that consent.
The appellant submitted that the principle of prior notice of the third party collections was not observed. She submitted that the WorkCover certificates she had signed do not constitute notices that comply with HPP 4. She contended that had she been informed that requests for all medical records were to flow from the authorisations she had given, she might have been able to seek an explanation, and question the necessity for the action. She drew an analogy with the rights that apply when subpoenas are issued (though the analogy is inexact, in that the right of objection is one conferred on the respondent to the subpoena not the person who may be the subject of the records to which the subpoena relates). She considered that should have provided her with a notice dealing separately with each of the matters (a) to (f). 
RailCorp submitted that while the Tribunal's reasons on this issue were 'scant' the conclusion was not wrong. RailCorp noted, as we have above, that the wording of HPP 4(2) is less strict than the wording of HPP 4(1), the obligation under HPP 4(2) is to make the subject 'generally aware' of the matters to which paragraphs (a) to (f) refer. RailCorp submitted that the circumstances read allowed for a finding of compliance with HPP 4(2).
As we understand the submission, it is that she knew from the consent she signed that any medical or other health service provider she had seen might be contacted. So as practical matter she knew of the fact of collections from third parties of this kind, and necessarily because of her prior association she knew the 'the identity of the organisation and how to contact it', the matter to which paragraph (a) is addressed. She was not specifically informed by the RailCorp authorisations as to whether she was 'able to request access to the information' (the paragraph (b) matter). On the other hand the records were ones made by her health practitioners about her, and she had a right, in law, to access to them. The submission was that the authorisations met the requirement of paragraph (c) in that their content and the context in which they were provided defined 'the purposes for which the information is collected'. There was nothing in the authorisations addressing paragraph (d), 'the persons to whom (or the types of persons to whom) the organisation usually discloses information of that kind', but the submission as we understood it was that the context within which the material was obtained supplied the answer to that issue, and they were regulated by the practices of the workers compensation jurisdiction. Paragraph (e) was not addressed, but again the material was being obtained pursuant to a legal framework for the assessment, management and determination of claims. Finally, as to paragraph (f) the consequences of non-supply of the information would have been that her claim would not have proceeded as efficiently, and she would have understood that. 
It is apparent that a number of assumptions and conclusions from surrounding circumstances have to be drawn in order to make a finding of compliance with HPP 4(2). In our view, analysis of this degree defeats the protective purpose of HPP 4(2). In our view the provision is one that requires of agencies a practice that clearly addresses the matters, in paragraphs (a) to (f) to the extent applicable and relevant. This was not a situation of an ad hoc event of collection of health information from third parties. It was a routine aspect of this area of administration of RailCorp. There should, in our view, have been a standard notice in place to address the matters to which HPP 4(2) refers. There was not. 
In our view, the matters to which RailCorp referred to do not satisfy HPP 4(2). 
The question then becomes whether one of the exceptions applies to exonerate RailCorp from compliance. For the reasons already given we do not think that the authorisations and consents relied upon, demonstrate that the appellant 'expressly consented' to RailCorp not complying with HPP 4(2). 
The final submission of RailCorp relies on the exception at HPP 4(2)(b), i.e. 
RailCorp argued that the practices it followed derived from the requirements of workers compensation law, in particular the two Acts (WCA and WIMWCA) and the WorkCover Guidelines for Claiming Compensation Benefits. We accept that the administration of workers compensation claims occurs within a complex legal framework informed by guidelines and similar instruments. We were provided with a copy of the Guidelines now in force (13 March 2012 edition, replacing the guidelines dated 17 April 2009). While these guidelines lay down a strict scheme of procedure for cases where a s 74 notice has been issued, they do not, in our view, displace the agency's obligation to comply with the requirements of HPP 4. Our attention was not drawn to any provision that prevented RailCorp from complying with HPP 4. 
Our finding is that RailCorp failed to comply with HPP 4(2) by not taking reasonable steps to make the appellant generally aware of the matters listed in sub-clause (1). We should indicate, however and in reply to the appellant's submissions, that we do not regard the failure as a grave one in the circumstances of the case, as for reasons we have given above, some of the matters to which sub-clause (1) refers would, or ought reasonably have been known to her. 
The appellant criticised the Tribunal for not dealing with her submissions in relation to compliance with HPP 5, the HPP that obliges organisations to have security, data retention and data disposal practices that meet the standards laid down in HPP 5. This was not a matter addressed by the original review report. RailCorp said that she did not raise it in her submissions to the Tribunal, she disputed that and referred to a part of her submissions where the issue was raised. The basic rule in this jurisdiction is that the parameters of the original complaint set the parameters of the internal review process and similarly the parameters of the external review undertaken by the Tribunal. In this case, as we explained earlier, the parties and the Tribunal allowed to be added to the case before the Tribunal the subsequent issue of the provision of the records to the WCC. We are not satisfied that there was any acceptance that the HPP 5 issue could be added. Therefore we will not deal with this aspect of the appellant's appeal.
We have made an adverse finding against RailCorp in relation to one aspect of the case. 
We will reconvene for a short hearing to consider an appropriate order. The order-making powers range from an order 'not to take any action on the matter' to a variety of other orders, the most significant of which is an order for monetary compensation for proven financial loss, or proven psychological injury or physical harm because of the conduct of the organisation. See further, PPIPA, s 55. 
############# I'm default separator ##########74
Set- aside application Explanation for non-attendanceNon-compliance with directions
This is an appeal against a decision of the Tribunal refusing an application to set aside an earlier decision of the Tribunal made in home building proceedings HB 13/42869 on 6 May 2014 (the original decision). In the original decision the appellant was ordered to pay the respondent the sum of $20,060.
The application to set aside was proceedings number HB 14/24035. The application to set aside was lodged on 8 May 2014 pursuant to Regulation 9 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation, 2013 (Regulation). The decision refusing the set-aside application was made on 26 June 2014 (set-aside decision).
The appellant did not seek to appeal the original decision.
For the reasons which follow, the appeal should be allowed in part and the order for payment of money made in the original decision varied so that the amount payable by the appellant to the respondent is reduced to $16,210.00 because the parties agree that the appellant has in fact paid $21,850.00 rather than $18,000.00 as found by the Tribunal in the original decision.
Home building proceedings HB 13/42869 were commenced in the Tribunal by the respondent in 2013. Those proceedings were required to be determined in accordance with clause 7 of Schedule 4 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act, 2013 (Act). The original decision and the set-aside decision, having been made in 2014, are general decisions by the Tribunal within the meaning of the Act and are both internally appealable decisions.
The dispute which was the subject of the original decision relates to a claim by the respondent for unpaid money under a contract with the appellant to perform residential building works within the meaning of the Home Building Act, 1989. There is no dispute that the work performed was residential building works or that the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear and determine the claim. The works to be performed were the redesign and construction of sewer works at a site at ###, Strathfield.
In the original decision the Tribunal determined that the parties had entered into a contract for redesign of the sewer totalling $6710.00 and rectification work totalling $31,350. The Tribunal also determined that the appellant had paid the sum of $18,000.00 in respect of the works, leaving an outstanding sum of $20,060.00 owing to the respondent.
Prior to the hearing on 6 May 2013, the proceedings had been listed in the Tribunal for the purpose of the Tribunal make directions for the filing and service of evidence. As set out in the Reply to Appeal the Tribunal made directions for the filing and service of the parties' evidence on 25 February 2014, 10 April 2014 and 2 May 2014. The directions made on 25 February 2014 required the appellant to file and serve any evidence by 25 March 2014. On application by the appellant, on 10 April 2014 the time was extended until 15 April 2014. 
At all relevant times the appellant was represented by a legal practitioner, leave having been granted on 25 February 2014.
The appellant made a further application to extend time until 2 May 2014. This application was not granted on the basis it could be "considered by the Tribunal at the hearing on 6 May 2014". The Tribunal also said that "the (appellant) is to comply with the directions prior to the hearing. You should comply with the procedural directions as soon as possible. Issues of non-compliance with procedural directions may be raised with the Tribunal at the next hearing".
The appellant failed to file and serve any evidence in accordance with the directions which the Tribunal had made.
When the matter was heard on 6 May 2014 the appellant failed to appear. There is no dispute that the appellant had notice of the hearing to which the original decision relates. However, the appellant contends it had "no opportunity to provide evidence": see ground 12B ii of the Notice of Appeal.
Following the publication of the original decision, the appellant filed the set-aside application which is the subject of this appeal. This application is Exhibit A. The appellant failed to file and serve this material as directed by the Appeal Panel pursuant to order 3 made 25 August 2014. However, by consent this material was admitted as an exhibit during the hearing of the appeal.
No application in the nature of a cross claim was filed by the appellant prior to 6 May 2014 nor has it been subsequently filed.
In the application to set aside the appellant sought the following orders: (a) applicants case to be dismissed (b) cross-claim in the amount of $7240.40 to be paid by the applicant to the respondent (c) applicant to complete certification of sewer works undertaken at ### Strathfield for the purpose of complying with Sydney Water".
An application for an extension of time to apply to set aside the original decision was also made. Having regard to the date when the application to set aside was lodged (being within seven days of the original decision) this request appears to be misconceived. However, in item 9 of the set-aside form the appellant says "Our evidence is submitted in this application and we are ready for a new hearing date". In addition, in item 11 of the set-aside form the appellant said that it wanted an "opportunity for witnesses x 2 to testify and give evidence".
The application to set aside included a statutory declaration from the appellant's solicitor, Mr Yau, who stated:
The attachments to the application to set aside included: (a) a letter from the appellant's lawyer dated 8 May 2014 (set aside submission); (b) a medical certificate dated 8 May 2014; (c) the directions of the Tribunal made on 2 May 2014 dealing with a further request for extension of time (referred to above); (d) a report from a building consultant, Mr Mario Bournelis, dated 7 May 2014; (e) bank records said to record payments made by the appellant to the respondent in connection with the works; (f) a statement of Mr Jason Huang headed "1 May 2014" but signed and dated 7 May 2014; (g) a letter from the respondent to "Reece" dated 21 January 2013 setting out the work carried out by the respondent said to be at the request of the appellant for a cost of $38,060 (being the amount found payable to the respondent by the appellant in the original decision)
The content of the set-aside submission can be summarised as follows: (a) On 4 May 2014 the appellant's lawyer sustained an allergic reaction and was unable to attend work until 7 May 2014; (b) On 5 May 2014 the appellant was notified of the directions made on 2 May 2014, namely that any request for an extension of time would be dealt with on 6 May 2014; (c) The property at Strathfield was occupied by a new owner and it had been "extremely difficult in organising access to the site to obtain the appropriate inspection. The owner was not easily contactable and was not conducive to allowing an inspector to attend his premises." (d) "Once the inspection was undertaken" it was necessary for the expert to undertake "extensive research in forming his opinion regarding the quote that (the appellant wished to submit) in our application"; (e) "The expert report was determinative of the issues at hand, in particular as to whether it would support our client's position that (the respondent) and our client had originally agreed that the cost of works would be much less than what was quoted by (the respondent)."; (f) The expert report was finally completed on 7 May 2014 "as adjustments needed to be carried out to the final figures to accommodate what was actually completed by (the respondent) at ... Strathfield"; (g) "It would have been impossible for our witness statement from Jason Huang to have been completed without the expert report" which was attached to Mr Huang's statement.
The set-aside submission then set out further contentions under the heading "Merits of our case". Inter alia, the appellant submitted that: (a) The works undertaken by the respondent would have cost "only 34% of the quote and invoice provided by (the respondent) being $31,350" if carried out by another contractor; (b) Bank statements were available indicating an amount of $21,850.00 had in fact been paid rather than the $18,000.00 is found by the Tribunal in the original decision; (c) By reason of the monies paid and the fact that the appellant expert had assessed the reasonable value of the works as $10,599.60, the appellant had in fact overpaid respondent the sum of $4540.40; (d) The work remains incomplete in that required certification for Sydney Water (a section 73 certificate) has not been provided; and (e) "The quote signed by (the appellant) was under unusual circumstances and (the appellant asserts the respondent) coaxed (the appellant) to sign such application."
The appellant then submitted:
The application to set aside was refused for the following reasons:
The appellant sets out five "grounds" of appeal (Notice of Appeal item 11 B): (i) The Tribunal failed to take account that the works are not completed in that certification for Sydney Water has not been provided; (ii) The appellant has in fact paid $21,850.00 not $18,000.00 as found by the Tribunal in the original decision. Therefore any order for payment should be not more than $16,210.00; (iii) The works should only have cost approximately $15,000 having regard to the expert evidence provided; (iv) The Tribunal failed to take account of the evidence of Mr Huang "regarding (the respondent) initiating claims against Reece based on an overinflated quote"; and (v) Additional statement from Mr Jason Huang dated 22 July 2014 claiming defective works.
In addition, in seeking leave to appeal, the appellant says that: (i) it has had "no opportunity to provide evidence" (see item 12 B ii of Notice of Appeal); (ii) the expert evidence upon which it wishes to rely "was determinative and would corroborate affidavit of Jason Huang regarding overcharging from the respondent" (see item 12 B iii of Notice of Appeal); and (iii) there is additional evidence "discovered in the last weeks regarding defective workmanship carried out" (see item 12 B iii of Notice of Appeal). In this regard a further statement of Mr Huang dated 22 July 2014 filed in the appeal is relied upon.
Despite the application to set aside filed in May 2013 stating that "evidence we seek to rely upon has now been finalised and is now attached to this application", the appellant submitted in the appeal a further statement of Mr Huang dated 22 July 2014, which attaches a written quotation for the works (excluding any design work) provided by the respondent to the appellant dated 20 September 2012. This quotation is signed by Mr Huang on behalf of the appellant underneath the printed words "I have read these terms and conditions on rear and understand it, I accept this quote."
As indicated above, in its Notice of Appeal the appellant only sought to appeal the set-aside decision, not the original decision. 
At the commencement of the hearing of the appeal, the appellant sought to make submissions about why the original decision was incorrect. The Appeal Panel noted that the appellant also needed to address why the Tribunal was in error in respect of the set-aside decision because the Notice of Appeal was limited to challenging the set-aside decision. In doing so, the Appeal Panel noted that any appeal against the original decision was out of time and would require leave if this matter was to be pursued. 
The Appeal Panel adjourned the hearing of the appeal for a short period of time to enable the appellant to consider whether it wish to make any application. Ehen the hearing of the appeal resumed the appellant confirmed that the appeal was in relation to the set-aside decision only. The hearing of the appeal continued on this basis.
During the course of the hearing of the appeal, the appellant conceded that no explanation had been provided in the set-aside application, or as part of this appeal (other than a limited explanation in respect of expert evidence and the site inspection), as to why the orders of the Tribunal had not been complied with or why evidence of the appellant was not provided prior to the hearing on 6 May 2014. 
Also during the course of the hearing, after submissions had been completed, the respondent conceded that the amounts claimed to have been paid by the appellant totalling $21,850.00 had in fact been paid. Therefore, the amount of 18,000.00 allowed for payments made by the appellant in the original decision was incorrect
One final matter should be recorded in relation to the appeal. That concerns an apparent agreement between the parties that consent orders be made to allow the appeal and set-aside the original decision for the purpose of a rehearing. The parties had separately written to the Appeal Panel on this topic. The Appeal Panel constituted by Deputy President Hennessey M declined to make orders by consent noting that "there had been an application to set aside the orders below which had been refused" and that "the appeal needs to be considered by the Appeal Panel on 14 October 2014".
When the matter came before the Appeal Panel for hearing, the Appeal Panel was informed by the respondent that it no longer consented to the orders setting aside the original decision and remitting the matter for rehearing. On this basis the Appeal Panel determine to hear the appeal.
This appeal is limited to the issue of whether or not the Tribunal was in error in failing to grant the application to set aside the original decision.
The appeal relates to the circumstances in which a decision of the Tribunal may be set aside pursuant to Regulation 9 and the exercise by the Tribunal of a discretion to set aside orders made at a hearing at which the appellant failed to appear. 
Regulation 9 is in the following terms:
Absent consent, the party seeking to set aside a decision under Regulation 9 must demonstrate that it is their absence which has resulted in their case not being adequately put rather than some other cause. Regulation 9 does not permit the Tribunal to set aside a decision for an unexplained default unrelated to the party's absence from a hearing. 
Where a party's absence has resulted in that party's case not being adequately put, the Tribunal has a discretion whether or not to set aside the decision. As pointed out in CMT  [2014] NSWCATGD 11 at  [65] and following, this will require consideration of: (a) why the party was absent from the hearing; and (b) whether the party's presence may have resulted in a different outcome.
Also relevant to the exercise of this discretion is: (a) the operation of the guiding principle provided in section 36(1) of the Act, namely the obligation of the Tribunal to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings; (b) the obligation of the Tribunal in interpreting the Act to give effect to the guiding principle is provided in section 36 (2) of the Act; and (c) the duty of each of the parties and their representatives "to co-operate with the Tribunal to give effect to the guiding principle and, for that purpose, to participate in the processes of the Tribunal and to comply with directions and orders of the Tribunal": see section 36 (3) of the Act); (d) A party is obliged to comply with directions of the Tribunal. 
The Tribunal is obliged to ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings: see section 38 (5) (c) of the Act. However, where a party is absent from a hearing and: (a) the obligations of the Tribunal under the Act have been met; (b) the parties have been directed to file and serve their evidence prior to the hearing and have failed to do so; (c) a hearing has been conducted after appropriate notice to the parties; and  (d) it is the failure to file and serve evidence which is the cause of the case not being put before the Tribunal,
Where a party fails to comply with directions and provide to the Tribunal evidence at a time required before the hearing, the mere fact of absence from the hearing will not entitle the defaulting party to have orders set aside under Regulation 9. Without an adequate explanation and consistent with the Tribunal's obligations under section 36 of the Act, the proper administration of justice would ordinarily mean that such an application to set aside a decision should be dismissed. This is because: (i) The absence of the party is not the cause of that party's case not being adequately put; and (ii) To allow a defaulting party to avoid the consequences of its default and to order a rehearing would work an injustice or disadvantage to the other party and prevent the Tribunal from bringing proceedings to a conclusion. 
Inter alia, this view is consistent with the provisions of Schedule 4 clause 10 of the Act which enables the Tribunal to make orders against a party causing disadvantage, including because a party fails to comply with directions of the Tribunal. In the case of a respondent to an original application (the appellant in this case) clause 10 enables the Tribunal to "determine the proceedings (or part of the proceedings) in favour of the applicant and make any appropriate orders".
It is in this context that the evidence and conduct of the appellant is to be evaluated.
The appellant does not appear to assert that the error made by the Tribunal in refusing the application to set aside constituted an error of law. Rather, the appellant asserts the Tribunal failed to take account of various factual matters in determining the set-aside application. While an assertion is made in relation to the application for leave to appeal that the appellant had "no opportunity to provide evidence" (Notice of Appeal item 12 B ii), the Appeal Panel has treated this statement as a submission that, having regard to the evidence upon which the appellant now seeks to rely, leave to appeal should be granted.
Therefore, leave is required to appeal. The decision of Urban v Collins  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 sets out the principles to be applied when considering an application for leave.
The application to set-aside was refused by the Tribunal because: (a) the Tribunal was not satisfied that the absence of the appellant at the hearing resulted in the appellant's case not being adequately put, (b) the appellant had failed to comply with procedural directions of the Tribunal for the filing and service of its evidence; and (c) the appellant had failed to explain why it did not attend the hearing on 6 May 2014.
At all times the appellant was represented by a legal practitioner and no suggestion was made that the appellant was unaware or unable to comply with its obligations under the Act and/or to comply with the Tribunal's directions.
In the present case the appellant relies on the following facts in support of its appeal: (a) the solicitor had been ill from 4 May 2014 until 7 May 2014 and was unable to attend the hearing; (b) expert evidence was relevant to corroborate the position of the appellant that the value of the works performed by the respondent was approximately $15,000; (c) the expert evidence was not available until the report was signed on 7 May 2014, after the hearing had concluded; (d) evidence is now available that the works completed by the respondent were not in accordance with the agreement; and (e) the amount paid to the respondent was in fact $21,850.00.
In relation to the lawyer's illness, the medical certificate provided is not adequate evidence of the matters asserted: see AHB v Trustees and Guardians  [2014] NSWCA 40 at  [4]- [5]. Further, even if accepted as appropriate evidence of an illness preventing the solicitor from attending the hearing on 6 May 2014, there is no explanation as to why: (a) another lawyer or a representative of the appellant could not have attended the hearing on 6 May 2014; or  (b) the appellant could not and/ or did not apply for an adjournment on the basis of ill health at or prior to the hearing. 
No evidence is provided of any attempt to communicate the fact of ill health to the Tribunal at or before the hearing on 6 May 2014 or, for that matter, to take any steps to inform the Tribunal or the respondent that the appellant was unable to appear on 6 May 2014.
There is no suggestion that the appellant did not have notice of the hearing. The Tribunal made clear in its orders of 2 May 2014 that any application in connection with extending time was a matter to be dealt with by the Tribunal at the hearing on 6 May 2014 and that directions should otherwise be complied with as soon as possible.
In relation to the evidence proposed to be adduced from the expert, Mr Bournelis, the failure to serve this report on a timely basis has not been adequately explained. As recorded in paragraph 1.1 of the report, instructions were provided to the expert on 27 March 2014. No evidence is provided of the date upon which the expert first sought access to the site, what were the communications with the current landowner of the site and when did they occur. Nor is any other information provided to the Appeal Panel which would explain why the Tribunal's directions in relation to the filing and service of evidence had not been complied with.
Further, the Tribunal's direction made 2 May 2014 records that the appellant was seeking an extension of time until 2 May 2014 to provide evidence, that is the appellant indicated the evidence would be provided on or before 2 May 2014. This did not occur and as with the non-compliance with earlier Tribunal directions, the circumstances of delay and non-compliance remain unexplained.
The substantial dispute in the respondent's claim was the price payable under the contract and the amount the appellant had paid. 
Evidence of the expert is not relevant, let alone determinative, of the issue of the terms of the contract between the parties in the present case. The relevant issue was whether or not the quotation dated 20 September 2012 had been accepted by the appellant. The fact that the reasonable cost of the works might be less than the amount in the quotation based on an opinion from an expert provided well after the works have been completed would not have assisted the Tribunal in determining what was the contractual arrangement between the parties. The delay in obtaining such expert evidence does not explain why relevant evidence from the appellant (Mr Huang) in relation to the question of the contractual negotiations and formation of the contract could not have been provided in a timely manner in accordance with the Tribunal's directions.
As, to Mr Huang's evidence, the statement signed 7 May 2014 suggests that it was available and could have been served (at the latest) on about 1 May 2014, being the date recorded on the first page of the statement. This date was three days before the lawyer became ill and the day before the date sought for a second extension of time to serve evidence, namely 2 May 2014.
In relation to the evidence of Mr Huang concerning the formation of the contract (found in the statement signed 7 May 2014 and the one signed 22 July 2014), he accepts that his signature appears on the quotation found by the Tribunal to constitute the terms of the contract (at a price of $31,350.00) but says that the quotation was signed for an ulterior purpose and did not reflect the price agreed for the works. In this regard he asserts that his purpose in signing the document was to assist the respondent make a claim against an entity called Reece. Reece had apparently undertaken various works in a defective manner on behalf of the appellant, which works the respondent was asked to correct. Inferentially the appellant appears to contend this quotation was prepared for an improper purpose and signed by Mr Huang to support this purpose.
Whether or not this is correct, the Appeal Panel notes that no evidence has been provided to suggest this issue was ever raised with the Tribunal prior to 6 May 2014 and no explanation has been provided as to why the evidence could not have been served and/or was not served in accordance with earlier directions of the Tribunal. 
In relation to the alleged defective and incomplete work, again no explanation is provided as to why evidence of these matters could not have been provided at an earlier time. For example, whether or not the certificate under section 73 has been provided does not require expert evidence. In relation to the missing bracket for the sewer pipe (referred to in paragraph 8.4 of the expert report dated 7 May 2014) no explanation is provided as to why this defect could not have been the subject of earlier evidence, at least by way of identification of a defect. In relation to the pipework said to be incomplete (see paragraph 1 (d) of the further statement dated 22 July 2014), again no explanation is provided as to why this evidence could not have been served at an earlier time. In any event the issue of the alleged incomplete work was not dealt with by the expert.
Further, there is no suggestion by either party that the appellant could not now file a separate application in respect of any claim for defective or incomplete work.
Finally, insofar as the appellant might now wish to rely on this evidence to challenge the original decision, such a challenge might be made by way of an appeal against the original decision, perhaps on the basis that the appellant could establish the decision was not "fair and equitable" and that leave to appeal should be granted because there was a substantial miscarriage of justice: see Schedule 4 clause 12 and Urban v Collins (supra) as to the circumstances of when leave should be granted . Whether or not such a challenge could be made, it is sufficient to record that: (a) the appellant did not seek to appeal the original decision; and (b) the failure to appeal the original decision does not mean that the refusal to set aside the original decision was in error.
The last evidentiary matter advanced by the appellant concerned a claim that the appellant had in fact paid the respondent $21,850.00.
Again, the appellant failed to explain why this evidence could not have been served at an earlier time. However, at the conclusion of the hearing of the appeal the Appeal Panel asked the respondent whether the sum of $21,850.00 had in fact been paid. The respondent, by its solicitor, conceded to the Appeal Panel that the amount of $21,850 had in fact been paid and that the conclusion of the Tribunal in the original decision allowing for payments of $18,000.00 only was incorrect.
Having regard to the above, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that:
There was no error in the Tribunal concluding in the set-aside decision that the appellant had failed to comply with the Tribunal's directions nor was there an error in concluding the appellant had failed to adequately explain the delay in providing its evidence;
The cause of the appellant's evidence not being available to the Tribunal on the day fixed for hearing arose from the failure of the appellant to comply with the Tribunal's directions for the filing and service of evidence, not by reason of the solicitor being ill or the absence of the appellant from the hearing; and. 
The appellant has not adequately explained why it could not have appeared by an alternative representative, for example Mr Huang.
These findings mean that, subject to one matter, the application for leave to appeal should be refused and the appeal dismissed.
It is agreed between the parties that the appellant in fact paid $21,850.00 not $18,000.00 as found by the Tribunal in the original decision. There was no such agreement when the Tribunal determined the set-aside application. While it is clear that the appellant asserted this fact in support of the set-aside application, the respondent did not, until the appeal, concede the payment.
By reason of the concession, the Appeal Panel is satisfied the appellant paid to the respondent an amount of $3850 more than was allowed by the Tribunal in the original decision in discharge of the appellant's obligations under the contract with the respondent. That is, against a contract price of $38,060.00 (being $6710.00 plus $31,350.00 as found by the Tribunal in the original decision) the appellant paid a total of $21,850, leaving a balance of $16,210 unpaid.
The Appeal Panel is satisfied that if the concession had been made to the Tribunal when considering the set-aside application, the Tribunal would have made an appropriate order so as to correct this error either on the application of a party or of its own motion. Further, a failure to do so now would constitute a substantial miscarriage of justice.
Therefore, consistent with the obligations of the Tribunal under section 36 of the Act, it is appropriate that the Appeal Panel grant leave to the appellant to appeal the set-aside decision in relation to the issue of whether the original decision was correct in determining the appellant had only paid $18,000 to the respondent pursuant to the contract as found in the original decision. Further, because this matter is now an agreed fact, there is no need to remit this issue to the Tribunal for rehearing. Rather, the Appeal Panel should exercise in this appeal the power available to the Tribunal pursuant to Regulation 9 and vary the original decision so that the sum in order 1 made 6 May 2014 is amended to $16,210.00. 
The Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) The appellant has leave to appeal the decision of the Tribunal made 27 June 2014 in relation to whether or not the order made 6 May 2014 should be set aside or varied by reason of the fact that the Tribunal, in its decision of 6 May 2014, incorrectly allowed an amount of $18,000.00 rather than $21,850.00 as the total amount paid by the appellant pursuant to its contract with the respondent as found by the Tribunal. (2) The appeal in relation to the issue identified in order 1 is allowed; (3) Order 1 of the Tribunal made 6 May 2014 is varied by substituting the amount of $16,210.00 for the amount of $20,060.00. (4) Save as provided above, the appeal is dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########75
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - appeal against ordersterminating residential tenancy agreement - matter to bedetermined on thepapers by consent - application for extension of time grated - meaning of theResidential Tenancy Act 2010 (NSW),s 90(1) - proceedings remitted.
In this appeal matter, the Appellant (the Tenant) seeks to appeal on a question of law relating to the decision at first instance to order that his residential tenancy agreement be terminated. He needs an extension of time to do so.
The question of law concerns the power of the Tribunal under s 90(1) of the Residential Tenancy Act 2010 (RTA) to terminate a tenancy agreement where the tenant has:
The whole of s 90(1) of the RTA states: (2) no findings were made as to what the Appellant intended, expected or foresaw in carrying out the works;
############# I'm default separator ##########76
Leave to appeal on other grounds -substantial miscarriage of justice due tosignificant new evidence - Tribunal misled by altereddocument - fraud onTribunal in order to advantage a party's case - leave granted - appeal allowed -uncertified translation - cautionto be exercised in relying on - measure ofdamages for misleading and deceptive conduct - difference between value paid andrealvalue - double compensation for detriment suffered
Prestige Auto Centre Pty Ltd (the appellant) has appealed against an order made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal under the Consumer Claims Act 1998
The Tribunal found that the appellant had engaged in misleading and deceptive conduct when it sold the respondent a used vehicle imported from Japan, with the odometer wound back from 101,600 kilometres to 33,248 kilometres. The Tribunal was satisfied that appellant was aware of the fact that the odometer had been wound back. The damages of $18,526 awarded by the Tribunal, consisted of the difference in value of the vehicle "per Sinergy valuation" as a result of the misdescription in kilometres, together with the costs of various repairs that the Tribunal accepted were "directly attributable to 80,000 additional kilometres travelled."
The appeal is an internal appeal to which Division 2 of Part 6 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the CAT Act) applies. Section 80 of the CAT Act is concerned with internal appeals. It provides -
With respect to appeals from the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal Clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the CAT Act provides -
The appellant relied on a number of alleged errors of law and sought the Appeal Panel's leave to rely on other grounds, including leave to rely on significant new evidence that had arisen since the Tribunal hearing. Due to the conclusions we have reached with respect to the appeal, it is convenient to first consider the application for leave to rely on significant new evidence.
Both parties sought to rely on new or further evidence at the appeal hearing. The appellant had served a bundle of such evidence on the respondent on the day the appeal was heard. The respondent said that he had received those documents and that he was able and willing to proceed.
The vast majority of the new documentary evidence relied on by both parties can be characterised as further evidence obtained since the Tribunal hearing, designed to bolster their respective positions. When the Appeal Panel drew the parties attention to the requirement that any significant new evidence they sought to rely on be evidence "not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with," both acknowledged and accepted that much of the new evidence they sought to rely on did not meet that criteria. As a result they did not press much of the new evidence they had initially sought to rely on.
The appellant did seek to rely on the following documents as constituting significant new evidence that was not reasonably available to it at the time of the hearing: A used car appraisal from Rob Redic of Sinergy Motor Sports of Memindie Gardens, S.A, dated 25 February 2014, addressed to the respondent with respect to the vehicle in issue.  A print out of an email purportedly from Rob Redic of Sinergy Motor Sports to Mr Akhmentov dated 2 October 2014.
At the Tribunal hearing the respondent relied on two documents in an effort to establish his loss as a result of buying a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VIII MR with 33,248 kilometres on the odometer, when he alleged it had actually done101, 600 kilometres or more. The first was a print out from RedBook.com.au which showed a trade in price guide for the vehicle of $16,100 - $19,400, and a private price guide of $20.400 - $23,700. The average kilometres for such a vehicle were shown as 150,000 - 250,000.
The second document, which was accepted by the Tribunal in assessing the respondent's damages, was a used car appraisal from Rob Redic of Sinergy Motor Sports of Memindie Gardens, SA, dated 25 February 2014, addressed to the respondent with respect to the vehicle (the Sinergy valuation). Omitting the formal parts it read:
The email from Mr Redic dated 2 October 2014 on which the appellant sought to rely referred to that Sinergy Valuation and said-
That original Sinergy valuation is the same as that the respondent relied on before the Tribunal (the original Sinergy valuation), with the exception of those parts of it that are concerned with the description and value of the vehicle. Those parts of the original read: 
The appellant alleged that the respondent had deliberately altered the original Sinergy Valuation and had thereby misled the Tribunal.
The respondent admitted altering the original Sinergy valuation. The following exchange took place between Senior Member Molony and him.
The respondent went on to explain that in seeking to recover damages from the respondent he had sought to obtain the difference between the price he paid for it and the true wholesale value of the vehicle due to the odometer being wound back. He agreed that he had altered the original Sinergy valuation before producing it to the Tribunal, having been given it in electronic form, in order to achieve that object. He had also sought to recover the costs of restoring the vehicle to the condition it would have been in had it actually done approximately 33,248 kilometres. 
The effect of the alterations was to exaggerate the gap between the price paid for the vehicle and its true value.
The new evidence which the appellant relied on to demonstrate that the respondent had altered the Sinergy valuation is not evidence that one could reasonably expect a party to Tribunal proceedings to obtain before a hearing. There is nothing about the first Sinergy valuation that would alert one to the fact that it had been altered and was not an original document. As a consequence there was nothing about the Sinergy valuation that pointed to the need for further enquiries to be made as its veracity. In those circumstances we are satisfied that the new evidence relied on by the appellant was not reasonably available to it at the time of the Tribunal hearing. 
That evidence, together with the respondent's admission that he deliberately altered the original Sinergy valuation, demonstrate that the respondent actively sought to and did mislead the Tribunal as to the true content of that document, in order to advantage his case. It demonstrates that the order made by the Tribunal was obtained as a result of fraud perpetrated on the Tribunal by the respondent. That evidence is significant new evidence that demonstrates that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice as a result of the respondent deliberately misleading the Tribunal as to the content of the original Sinergy valuation.
As a consequence the Panel grants leave to the appellant to appeal on the ground that he may have suffered a significant injustice because significant new evidence has arisen (being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with).
In Hip Foong Hong v H Neotia & Co [1918] UKPC 65;  [1918] A.C. 888 the Privy Council (Earl Loreburn, Lord Buckmaster and Lord Dunedin) explained at 894 that:
In Clone Pty Ltd v Players Pty Ltd (in liq recs apptd)  [2012] SASC 12 Kourakis J at [97] explained why cases of fraud constitute an exception to the general public interest in the finality of litigation -
In Meek v Fleming [1961] 3 All ER 148 Holroyd Pearce LJ explained at 154:
Indeed the Courts recognise that fresh evidence demonstrating that a decision was obtained as a result of fraud constitutes an exception to usual rule that applies to the fresh evidence ground of appeal. That requires that the fresh evidence was not known at the time of the trial, despite the exercise of reasonable diligence: see Hansen Yuncken Pty Ltd v Erickson t/as Flea's Concreting [2011] QSC 327 at  [127], [128] per McMurdo J; Commonwealth Bank of Australia v Quade (1991) 178 CLR 134. This is not the case with respect to appeals from the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal because Clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the CAT Act requires that the significant new evidence not be reasonably available at the time of the hearing. 
A conclusion that a judgment has been obtained by fraud constitutes a ground for setting aside that judgment and ordering a new trial: McDonald v McDonald [1965] HCA 45;  (1965) 113 CLR 529 at 533 per Barwick CJ, at 540 per Menzies J.
These principles are equally applicable to decisions obtained as a result of fraud perpetrated on the Tribunal. 
In the Panel's opinion the respondent relied on the Sinergy valuation during the hearing before the Tribunal. He benefited from his reliance on that altered document in the orders made at the conclusion of those proceedings. As a consequence the appropriate order is to set aside the decision of the Tribunal and order a new hearing of the application. 
Because we have determined that the significant new evidence merits a new hearing there is no point to be served by traversing all the errors of law alleged by the appellant. Two of those alleged errors, however, merit our attention for the guidance of the parties. They concern - (1) Whether there was evidence before the Tribunal which justified the conclusion that the vehicle at the time of import had travelled 101,600.
############# I'm default separator ##########77
Appeal from Consumer and Commercial Division, error of law, substantialmiscarriage of justice, significant new evidence
This is an appeal from the decision of the Tribunal on file MV 14/06948 dismissing the application of Mr Bannick seeking orders against one or more of the three respondents in respect of an allegedly defective motor vehicle. The Tribunal's decision was published on 24 June 2014 and written reasons were provided for the decision at that time.
Mr Bannick by Notice of Appeal filed on 22 July 2014 sought to challenge that decision and the matter proceeded to a call over before the President, Wright J on 18 August 2014. At that time leave was granted for the parties to be represented and the parties were directed to file and serve all material to be relied on at the hearing of the appeal.
It was noted by the President at that time that
At the hearing the parties identified the material that had been filed in accordance with those directions and upon which they sought to rely and that material was identified and tendered on appeal.
In addition to the Notice of Appeal with attachment, affidavit of the appellant with attachments, written submissions and an expert report filed in response to the President's directions the appellant sought to tender at the hearing an audio disc of the hearing before the Tribunal. 
It is noted that the appellant , in his affidavit dated 27 August 2014 and filed in the Tribunal on 1 September 2014 (exhibit B) at paragraph 7, advised that he had "recently received the discs from the Tribunal that contain the recording of the proceedings" . All three respondents objected to late filing of the material. The Appeal Panel members had not had the benefit of the audio disc prior to the hearing.
The Appeal Panel determined that the audio disc not be admitted as evidence in the appeal.
The material relied on by the respondents consisted of a Reply to Appeal and written submission filed by the first and third respondent. The representative of the second respondent confirmed that it had not filed any documentary material and did not seek to rely on any.
The issue of whether the Tribunal at first instance had jurisdiction to hear and determine the decision below was raised by the first respondent in its written submissions.
The parties' representatives agreed that the Appeal Panel had jurisdiction (Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act s 28(2)(c)) to hear and determine the appeal and that the issue of whether or not the Tribunal at first instance had jurisdiction was not germane to the grounds of appeal. The respondents' representatives conceded that it was not necessary to look further into the issue of the Tribunal's jurisdiction at first instance. It was noted however, that should the appeal be successful and the matter remitted for re-hearing, the issue would be a matter for any Tribunal newly constituted for a re-hearing.
The appellant filed an application in the Tribunal on 5 February 2014 seeking the following orders: 
Relevantly the appellant further stated on the application form under the heading "Reasons for the Orders"
The matter came before the Tribunal on 27 March 2014 at which time the parties were directed to exchange documents to be relied on at the hearing according to a time-table set out in the directions. It is noted the directions specifically referred to the nature of the material that could be filed as "documentary material" and relevantly included reference to "expert reports". All parties were represented at that directions hearing, although it appears that the first and third respondents attended by telephone.
On 15 April 2014 and again on 28 May 2014 the time-table was varied by extending the time for compliance with the directions. The matter was listed for hearing on 24 June 2014 and again, all parties were represented at the hearing. 
The relevant reasons for the dismissal of the application are summarised as follows:
Following the hearing the Member dismissed the appellant's application and published reasons for that decision. It is that decision which is under appeal.
The grounds of appeal relied on in the Notice of Appeal filed by the appellant were as follows;
The grounds as set out in the Notice of Appeal were supplemented by written submissions (exhibit C) and were further elaborated upon by counsel at the hearing. Ultimately the grounds relied on were;
It was submitted that the appellant was entitled pursuant to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, s 80(2)(b) as of right to appeal the Tribunal's decision based on an error of law.
It was submitted that the Tribunal member had made an error of law because in the Reasons for Decision it was asserted by the Member that the appellant had restricted his claim to a claim for $64,500 on the basis that it was an "all or nothing" claim when it was clear that was only one of the remedies sought by the appellant. In obtaining that concession from the appellant in circumstances where he was not legally represented and did not appreciate the significance of the concession, the Member had failed to exercise procedural fairness which constituted the error of law.
In addition, the appellant sought leave of the Appeal Panel to appeal pursuant to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, Schedule 4, cl 12(1)(a), (b) and (c).
In regard to cl 12(1)(a) it was submitted that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision was "not fair and equitable" as the Member, in restricting his consideration of the evidence to an "all or nothing" claim in circumstances where it was open to the Member to make other orders had failed to consider those other orders. 
It was submitted that the decision was against the weight of the evidence, as the Member had evidence before him that should have led to different conclusions and orders for repair of the vehicle. The appellant specifically relied on the report of Alan Todhunter tendered at the Tribunal hearing and filed in these proceedings (exhibit B attachment H).
In regard to cl 12(1)(c), the appellant sought to rely on the report of Bruce Elson Automotive (Exhibit D) as significant new evidence going to the issue of loss of power of the vehicle that has arisen since the hearing. The appellant's submission was that the evidence was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing because the appellant did not know he had to get a report and also because he failed to grasp the significance of the need to put evidence before the Tribunal.
It was submitted that the appellant had suffered a "substantial miscarriage of justice" because he had significant problems with the vehicle in regard to bubbling paintwork, dangerous and unpredictable loss of power and frequent rectification of accessories supplied with the vehicle. The appellant had paid over $70,000 for the vehicle and after three years it was of little if any value. The appellant had sought a remedy from one or more of the respondents soon after the purchase of the vehicle and he now sought "a chance at justice" by filing the appeal.
The first respondent made submissions to the following effect.
The Tribunal Member did not misapprehend the nature of the appellant's claim. Clearly on the face of his application he stated that he was seeking either a full replacement of the vehicle and swapping all of its non-genuine accessories as at 2/2/2014, or a total refund of the purchase price. It was incumbent upon the Member to clarify the orders sought before commencing the hearing. In the absence of transcript or recordings, there was no evidence before the Appeal Panel to support the submission that the Member had improperly misled the appellant to abandon any alternative claim for relief.
The first respondent relied on the authority of Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 where the Appeal Panel considered the circumstances in which a substantial miscarriage of justice may eventuate for any of the reasons specified in cl 12(1)(a),(b) or (c). In particular that there must be established 
There was no evidence before the Appeal Panel, it was submitted, for the proposition that there was a limit imposed on the applicant's claim or abandonment of remedies sought. Further, there was no evidence of any exchange between the appellant and the Member at first instance to support the proposition of an error of law by reason of procedural unfairness as relied on as the first ground of appeal.
Further, the evidence relied on by the appellant at first instance (attachment K to exhibit B) made it clear that as at 16 April 2014 a further investigation by a diesel expert was required to ascertain the cause of loss of power. Consequently the appellant was on notice well before the hearing on 24 June 2014 of the deficiency in his evidence yet did not seek to obtain a report such as that now sought to be relied upon. No acceptable explanation was given as to why the report was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing. It was not the case that the appellant did not understand the need for or relevance of expert evidence. After all, he had relied on such evidence himself at the hearing and directions had been made by the Tribunal on 27 March 2014 in relation to the provision of evidence. 
In addition, the report of Bruce Elson (exhibit D) which is now sought to be adduced is speculative and inconclusive, does not traverse the Member's findings and therefore cannot be regarded as "significant" new evidence.
The third respondent adopted the submissions of the first respondent but also made submissions that the report of Todhunter (attachment H to exhibit B) relied on by the appellant failed to identify which, if any, of the respondents was responsible for the reported paint problems. An order for rectification of defective paintwork against a specific respondent was therefore not open to the Member to make, even had he been satisfied the evidence supported the finding that the paintwork was defective.
The third respondent also made submissions relating to whether the third respondent had been correctly identified. As those submissions were not germane to the appeal they were not pressed. However, it was noted by the Appeal Panel that if proceedings had been commenced against a wrong party there was no impediment to the appellant commencing new proceedings against the correctly named party in an appropriate jurisdiction.
No submissions were made on behalf of the second respondent.
The Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 s 80 (2) relevantly provides
The Appeal Panel in Prendergast v Western Murray Irrigation Ltd [2014] NSWCATAP69 recently considered the requirements for establishing an "error of law" giving rise to an appeal as of right. The Appeal Panel at para 11-12 said
In this appeal the parties were legally represented but the Notice of Appeal did not satisfactorily and with any precision set out the error of law relied on. Nevertheless, the further submissions from counsel for the appellant did sufficiently identify the claimed "error of law" as noted above at para. 20.
The Notice of Appeal does not articulate, in express terms, any question of law. The importance of the question of law was noted by the Appeal Panel in Prendergast. Without expressing exhaustively possible questions of law, the Appeal Panel in Prendergast cited the following at [13]: (1) Whether there has been a failure to provide proper reasons.
Counsel for the appellant identified lack of procedural fairness that amounted to the error of law relied on in this case.
The application filed by the appellant at first instance (annexure C to exhibit B) specified that the "orders sought" were
That is, the application itself was ambiguous in that it was unclear what remedy was being requested by the appellant. Such an ambiguity in the remedy being sought is not an uncommon occurrence in the Tribunal where parties are usually unrepresented and strict pleadings are not a requirement.
However the Tribunal "may inquire into and inform itself on any matter in such a manner as it thinks fit, subject to the rules of natural justice". (Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act s 38(2)). 
Hence, in order to provide procedural fairness to each of the respondents it was necessary to clearly identify the case they had to answer and to do so it was incumbent on the Tribunal to require the applicant to clarify the orders that he sought.
The appellant provided no evidence to support the submission that the Tribunal member had misunderstood the nature of the claim or that in doing so, the Tribunal member had misdirected himself as to the evidence to be applied. 
Furthermore the appellant provided no evidence to support the submission that in clarification of the nature of the claim the Tribunal failed to provide procedural fairness to the applicant.
For these reasons the appellant has not demonstrated that there was an error of law giving right to an appeal as of right pursuant to the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 s 80(2)(b).
Alternatively, the appellant may succeed in this appeal if he is able to satisfy the requirements of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, Schedule 4, clause 12 which relevantly provides
The decision of the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 was relied on in submissions by the first respondent. That decision comprehensively reviewed the cases with reference to "substantial miscarriage of justice" in cl 12 (above) and identified the general principles to apply on an application for grant of leave.
The Appeal Panel in Collins at para 76 said
The appellant's case in respect of cl 12(1)(a) was that the Member's decision was not fair and equitable because he had mistakenly restricted himself to consideration of the claim on an "all or nothing basis". In doing so the appellant had suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision made was not fair and equitable.
This is essentially the same argument as was relied on in respect of the alleged error of law. As the appellant has failed to establish that the Member was in error or had misdirected himself in consideration of the claim on an "all or nothing basis" then the appellant's submission that the consideration of his claim on that basis was "not fair and equitable" cannot succeed. 
In considering the third ground of appeal, that is that the decision was against the weight of the evidence the appellant relied on the expert evidence provided in the Todhunter report. Adopting the language of Collins, the issue for determination by the Appeal Panel is whether there was a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that the appellant would have achieved a more favourable result if the Tribunal had accepted and given proper weight to the evidence in the Todhunter report.
That evidence went only to the issue of the quality of the finishes on the vehicle. The report described the general appearance of the vehicle as "good" but went on to identify a number of defects in the paintwork. The report also recommended remedial work and described that work in general terms.
It seems the author of the report had ample experience and qualifications to express the opinions contained in the report. It is clear the report is evidence going to the defects in the paintwork and that the Tribunal was entitled to rely on that evidence. It is also clear from the Reasons for Decision published by the Tribunal that the Tribunal did accept the Todhunter report as expert evidence as it made reference to that evidence at the second paragraph on the third page of the reasons.
However, the Tribunal was not in a position to make any orders for rectification of the paintwork in accordance with the recommendations in the report for two reasons. Firstly, the applicant had made clear to the Member that he was no longer seeking such an order and only pressed his claim for replacement of the vehicle or refund of the purchase price. The report did not support either of those claims. Secondly, even if the applicant had maintained his claim for rectification of defects in the vehicle, there was insufficient evidence to enable the Tribunal to attribute the defects in the paintwork to the actions of any one or more of the respondents and an order for rectification made against a specific respondent would not have been available.
Further, the Reasons for Decision indicate that the Member also had other evidence on the paint issue (the letter from Fineline Smash Repairs referred to at page 3 of the decision). That evidence was not before the Appeal Panel and it was therefore not possible for the panel to determine, in light of that other evidence, whether more or less weight ought to have been given to the Todhunter report.
The appellant's counsel was asked by the Appeal Panel to take the panel to other evidence, if any, on which the appellant placed reliance in respect of this ground of appeal. Whilst it was suggested by counsel that orders could have been made for a partial refund or rectification of defects there was no other evidence referred to that was said to have resulted in a substantial injustice for the reason provided under cl 12(1)(b).
The Appeal Panel is therefore not persuaded that the appellant has suffered a substantial injustice because the decision of the Tribunal was against the weight of the evidence.
The appellant also relied on cl 12(1)(c) and sought to introduce new evidence in the form of the report from Bruce Elson Automotive Consultants (exhibit D).
The Elson report was dated 22 September 2014 and was prepared by Mr Bruce Elson. The attached resume makes it clear that Mr Elson has ample qualifications and experience to express an expert opinion and it makes appropriate acknowledgement of the author's obligations pursuant to the Tribunal's code of conduct for expert witnesses.
However, the author of the report has not driven the appellant's vehicle and it is unclear from the report whether he has in fact examined the subject vehicle at any time. It appears to be simply a review of the documents and an expression of opinion of possible diagnoses of the causes of loss of engine power.
There are a number of difficulties faced by the appellant in now seeking to introduce the report to demonstrate that he has suffered a substantial injustice.
The wording of cl 12(1)(c) requires that the new evidence must be "significant" and that it was "not reasonably available" at the time of the proceedings at first instance. In regard to the second issue the appellant makes no mention in his affidavit (exhibit B) of any reason that the Elson report was unavailable at the time of the first hearing. The appellant, in his affidavit at para 8, does state in a general way "I did not understand the particulars around evidence". It was submitted he (the appellant) did not know he had to get a report and that he failed to grasp the significance of evidence. There was no evidence before the appeal panel to support this submission.
However, it is noted that the Tribunal in its written directions provided to the applicant on 27 March 2014 directed the applicant as follows
In response to those directions the applicant provided a large number of documents including the Todhunter report and the NRMA report (annexures H and K respectively to exhibit B). The Todhunter report itself indicates awareness by the appellant of the need to provide evidence to support his claim. The NRMA report made it clear that further investigation of the problems with the vehicle were necessary in order to diagnose the fault.
The Appeal Panel does not accept the assertion that the appellant was unaware of the necessity to provide evidence to support his case and is further satisfied that the appellant was on notice both by the directions made by the Tribunal on 27 March 2014 and by the content of the NRMA report dated 16 April 2014 that he would need expert evidence to prove his case.
There is simply no adequate reason provided to support the proposition that the evidence now relied on in the Elson report was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing.
Further, the Elson report does not provide any evidence in relation to the author's examination or driving of the vehicle and the opinions expressed are no more than speculation. Paragraph 6.0 at page 3 refers to "possible causes of loss of engine power" and the conclusion set out at paragraph 7.0 of the report (page 4), whilst expressing the view that the electronic control module is receiving a signal from an unidentified source, also advises that further diagnostic work needs to be done.
For these reasons the report is of no assistance in identifying the cause of the engine fault and in that sense is not significant new evidence.
For these reason the appellant has failed to establish a substantial miscarriage of justice for any of the reasons provided by Schedule 4, cl 12(1) and leave to appeal is therefore refused.
############# I'm default separator ##########78
Appeal from Tribunal Decision, Leave to Appeal, Leave to Appeal Out ofTime
The Respondent to the Appeal bought a boiler from the Appellant in 2008 for use in the Respondent's grain processing plant.
In 2011 it was discovered that the outer shell of the boiler had begun to fracture. When repairs were attempted it was found that the thickness of the metal of the external wall of the boiler was only 2mm, whereas according to the specifications by the Korean manufacturer, the thickness should have been 6.6mm.
Welding patches to the fractures was very difficult because the metal was so thin.
A boiler inspector inspected the boiler and found that the internal diameter of the main water pipes for cooling was too small.
The Respondent decommissioned the boiler. After it was decommissioned, it was discovered that the boiler contained chrysotile asbestos. 
Since 31 December 2003 there has been an Australian wide ban on the importation, manufacture and use of all forms of asbestos and products containing asbestos. Section 50 of the Customs Act 1901 provides for prohibition of importation of goods into Australia by regulation. By regulation 4C(3) of the Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations 1956 (as amended) importation to Australia of chrysotile asbestos is prohibited. That is subject to listed exceptions, but there is no suggestion that any might apply in this case. The Appellant does not contest the findings that the boiler contained chrysotile asbestos and that because of the boiler containing chrysotile asbestos, its importation into Australia and sale in Australia were prohibited.
On 17 January 2014 the Respondent commenced proceedings in the Tribunal against the Appellant in respect of the boiler making claims under the Consumer Claims Act 1998 for compensation and other orders. There is no suggestion that the application was not served on the Respondent. 
The Appellant has not put in evidence various relevant parts of the Tribunal file in the proceedings, but presumably, as is the Division's usual practice, the parties were each notified of the listing on 3 March by a letter sent to them by post by the Registrar of the Division. In accordance with the Division's usual practice, the letter would have been headed "Conciliation and Hearing (Group List)" and it would have included a notice that if a party failed to attend, the Tribunal may decide the matter in that party's absence and the decision would be binding on that party.
Mr Horak's evidence is that he as sole director of the Appellant appeared for the Appellant on 3 March. The Appellant apparently received that notice of the listing. 
The Appellant in its submissions asserted, and the Respondent did not deny, that its director, Ms A Russell attended on 3 March with Mr Bell. It appears that throughout the Respondent has been represented by Ms Russell, as its agent. 
The only order made by the Tribunal on 3 March 2014 was:
That order was confirmed by a letter of 3 March to each of the parties sent by the Tribunal that day (or the next working day) by post and the letter also stated: "A separate written notice of the new hearing date will be sent to you in the near future."
As per the usual practice of the Division the parties would have been notified more than a month before 23 June 2014 of the listing of the proceedings on that date by a letter headed "Conciliation and Hearing", and the letter would have included a warning that if a party failed to attend, the Tribunal may decide the matter in that party's absence and the decision would be binding on the absent party.
There is no submission that any of the letters sent to the Appellant by the Tribunal was not addressed to the correct address of the Appellant or was returned to the Tribunal.
On 23 June 2014 Ms Russell attended before the Tribunal for the hearing. There was no attendance by or on behalf of the Appellant. The Tribunal had general jurisdiction over the matter (per para 29(1)(a) of the Act) and under rule 26 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014, which commenced in February 2014, the Appellant can file a Reply in the prescribed form disputing the Application, but no form has been prescribed. Neither party had filed any evidence, but the Applicant in the Application had evidence available at the hearing.
In the absence of any appearance for the appellant or any explanation for the non-appearance, the Tribunal member then proceeded with the hearing of the Application.
The Orders were made on 23 June 2014. The Reasons were not signed by the Tribunal Member until 3 July 2014 and presumably were then posted to each of the parties.
The Tribunal made the following Orders on 23 June 2014:
Under a subsequent heading "Reasons for Decision", the Tribunal gave the following reasons for the decision:
It appears from the evidence that the Orders and Reasons were sent by the Tribunal to each of the parties on 3 July 2014 or the next working day.
The evidence of Mr Horak is that the Appellant received the Orders and Reasons on 10 July 2014.
Section 53 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act, 2013 ("the Act") provides:
Regulation 9 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation, 2013 provides:
The Appellant had legal advice and representation from at least 18 July 2014 when Mr Horak swore the statutory declaration in support of this Application. 
That statutory declaration shows that the Appellant was relying upon the following grounds:
There is no suggestion that the Appellant was alleging a failure by the Tribunal to comply with a provision of the Act or Rules. It appears therefore that the appellant did not rely upon section 53.
It appears the first setting aside application was made under Regulation 9, relying on the grounds set out in Mr Horak's statutory declaration. It was heard and dismissed on 6 August 2014. The reasons are not in evidence. There has been no appeal against that decision. 
With the benefit of legal advice and representation the Appellant lodged a second setting aside application in August 2014. Statutory declarations were made on 14 and 15 August by witnesses for the Appellant in support of that Application. The setting aside Application was not put in evidence, but clause 9(6) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation, 2014 provides;
The second setting aside application was heard on 19 July 2014 and refused and dismissed.
The Appellant has not placed the reasons for the decision in evidence, but so far as we are aware, there was no leave granted and the dismissal was probably under clause 9(6) of the Regulation.
The Notice of Appeal to this appeal panel was filed on 20 August 2014. It is an appeal against the decision of 23 June 2014 and also the decision of 19 July 2014 dismissing the second setting aside application.
At this hearing the Appellant withdrew the Appeal against the refusal of the second setting aside application.
The surviving Appeal is against the decision of 23 June 2014. The grounds in the Notice of Appeal are:
We have allowed the Appellant to add at the hearing the additional grounds set out in the Appellant's solicitor's letter to the Tribunal of 11 September 2014, which are:
Section 80 provides:
The first ground is in effect an argument that the Tribunal erred by assuming that the Appellant had notice of the hearing on 23 June 2014 and raises an issue of procedural fairness. 
The second ground is an argument that there was no evidence to support findings of the Tribunal. 
The third ground is an argument that the Tribunal erred by failing to take into account the absence of relevant evidence.
Accordingly, under para 80(2)(b) the panel has treated each of the grounds as questions of law and leave to make the appeal is not required.
This Panel has jurisdiction to entertain internal appeals under s.32 of the Act.
Under para 25(4)(c) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules, 2014 for an internal appeal such as this matter, the appeal is required to be filed with the Tribunal "within 28 days from day on which the Appellant was notified of the decision to be appealed or given Reasons for the decision (whichever is the later)".
The Appellant was given the Reasons and the decision on 10 July 2014. Accordingly, the appeal period expired on 7 August 2014. The Appeal was filed 13 days after the appeal period expired.
Section 41 of the Act allows the Tribunal to extend the time for filing an appeal "of its own motion or on application by any person".
The test of whether such a power should be exercised to extend the statutory time limit is whether there is "proof that strict compliance with the rules will work an injustice upon the Applicant .." (per McHugh J in Gallo v Dawson [1990] HCA 30). The onus is on the Appellant to show that if the time for filing of the appeal is not extended by 13 days, there will be an injustice to the Appellant.
An extensive discussion of the law in this area and the matters a court or tribunal should take into account when considering such an application is set out in Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation  [2014] NSWCATAP 22(19 May 2014) at paras 18 - 22.
In this matter in considering whether there would be an injustice if the time is not extended by 13 days as requested, the relevant considerations include: (a) length of the delay, (b) the reason for the delay, (c) the fact that the Appellant has had legal advice and representation since at least 18 July, (d) the prejudice to the Respondent if leave is granted, and (e) the Appellant's prospects of success in the appeal.
The delay was 13 days beyond the prescribed period of 28 days. It is a substantial delay. The Appellant knew of the orders and reasons on 10 July and did not file the Notice of Appeal till 41 days later. 
The Applicant has offered no explanation for the delay. 
The evidence includes a statutory declaration of Mr Horak made on 18 July 2014, presumably in support of the first setting aside application. That document was witnessed by the solicitor for the company on 18 July. The Appellant has not disclosed when legal advice or representation was first obtained, but it was obviously on or before 18 July 2014. That was 8 days after the Appellant received the orders and reasons appealed against. There is no explanation of that delay.
The first setting aside application was heard and dismissed on 6 August 2014, 27 days after the Appellant received the orders and reasons and one day before the appeal period expired. There is no explanation as to why the delay occurred with that application. 
When the second setting aside application was filed on about 18 August 2014, the appeal period had already expired on 7 August 2014. Then the Notice of Appeal was filed on 20 August. 
The Appellant has not provided evidence of the reasons for the delays or of the legal advice that the Appellant received from its solicitors, as regards appeal rights and the period for an appeal. 
The Respondent has, by its agent, Ms A Russell , attended the Tribunal now for 3 hearings. It has been successful in each. It has also attended a directions hearing for each of the original application and the appeal. The Respondent's business is located at Mudgee and Ms Russell resides there. If leave were granted to the filing of the appeal out of time, there may need to be a further hearing. 
We are not informed as to where the original directions hearing, and the hearings of the setting aside application were held. But the evidence discloses that the directions hearing for the appeal was at Sydney and the hearing before us was at Sydney. These attendances by Ms Russell (and any other witnesses for the Respondent) would involve significant expense and inconvenience for the Respondent. 
The history of the proceedings has involved considerable delay, expense and inconvenience for the Respondent, none of which were attributable to conduct of the Respondent. If leave is granted for the appeal to be filed out of time, that is likely to result in a rehearing with further delay in resolving the issues, and considerable further expense and inconvenience to the Respondent. 
It is clear on the evidence that because the Appellant did not receive notice of the hearing, it lost the opportunity to file evidence for the hearing and to attend and put its evidence and submissions before the Court. 
The other 2 grounds of the appeal are:
Ground 2 was not shown to have any merit. The Appellant did not, despite invitations from the panel to provide any additional evidence, put into evidence the evidence that was before the Tribunal. The Tribunal member in his reasons made the orders based upon his findings that the thickness of the outer shell of the boiler was 2mm instead of 6.6mm specified in the manufacturer's specifications and the internal diameter of the main water pipes was too small. On the face of it the reasons indicate that there was evidence to support those findings. The Appellant has not provided the Panel with evidence capable of displacing that finding.
Ground 3 is also not shown to have merit. The Tribunal Member expressly relied upon evidence of an inspection by a boiler inspector who noted that the main water tubes were small in diameter and would have contributed to blockages. There is no suggestion that this expert evidence was not correct. The Appellant does not say there is any evidence to contradict this opinion, only that the Tribunal failed to provide a copy to the Appellant before the hearing. Ground 3 is not a ground which, if proved, would of itself, or with success on grounds 1 or 2 , justify the appeal being allowed. 
There is another issue that is important. Although he did not rely directly upon it, the Tribunal Member found that the boiler contained chrysotile asbestos and the boiler's importation into Australia and its use in Australia have been prohibited by law since 2003. The Respondent offered evidence on these issues at the hearing on 23 June 2014 and clearly intends to rely on them in any appeal or rehearing. The Appellant does not dispute these findings of the Tribunal Member. 
The Panel is not persuaded that on a hearing of the appeal or a rehearing the appellant has prospects of obtaining a more favourable result than the orders of 23 June 2014.
The Appeal Panel has concluded that the granting of leave to appeal out of time is not necessary to avoid injustice to the Appellant because:
The orders of the Appeal Panel therefore are: 
############# I'm default separator ##########79
Hearing date-failure to notify Appellants - Appellants overseasMiscarriage of justice
In light of the material which appears hereafter we are of the opinion that this appeal should be determined on the paper and we order accordingly.
This is an appeal against an order made by the Tribunal below on 13 March 2014 in these terms: (1) The tenant, Usman Mushtaq & Muhammad ArshadShadab also known as Muhammad Shadab Arshad, 10/2 Rosemont Street PUNCHBOWL NSW 2196 Australia, is to pay the landlord, MIR BROS ENTERPRISES PTY LTD ATF THE SAMUEL MIR TRUST, PO BOX 114 BANKSTOWN NSW 1885 Australia, the sum of $2,734.47 immediately.
The respondent and the appellants were respectively landlord and tenants of premises 10/2 Rosemont Street, North, Punchbowl under a tenancy agreement which was terminated by the appellants on or about 20January 2014. The respondent commenced the proceedings below on 19 February 2014. According to the file a Notice of Conciliation and Hearing was prepared in the Tribunal's registry addressed to the appellants at the subject premises 10/2 Rosemont Street, Punchbowl. As the respondent knew that was not then the address of either appellant. At the hearing on 13 March 2014 there was no appearance for the appellants and the Tribunal made the order reproduced above in their absence.
In the notice of appeal filed out of time on 30 April 2014 it is claimed that the appellants received no notice of the proceedings or of the order made until about 1 April 2014. So far as Mr Mustaq is concerned he produced documentary evidence in the form of boarding passes to the effect that he travelled from Sydney to Dubai on 3 March 2014 and returned from Dubai to Sydney on 26 March 2014.
In the circumstances there is strong evidence that the appellants received no notice of the proceedings until sometime after the hearing and were thus deprived of the opportunity to present their case. 
We are satisfied on the material before us that through no fault of their own the appellants were not notified of the hearing date and were thus deprived of the opportunity to meet the case against them. Moreover they seem to have prima facie an arguable defence to the claim. In the result there was a miscarriage of justice which requires correction. In saying this we mean no criticism of the learned member who conducted the trial at first instance as presumably he had no knowledge of the circumstances we have recited. Despite the rather flimsy excuse given by the appellants for filing their Notice of Appeal so long out of time we think that in the interest of justice we should give them leave to do so.
We make these orders: (1) Leave to file notice of appeal up to and including 30 April 2014. (2) Leave to appeal on the merits granted.
############# I'm default separator ##########80
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - application forextension of time to lodge Notice of Appeal - interest of justicein grantingextension - whether right to reject vehicle - whether decision unjust - whethercorrect party named - whether full refundappropriate - appeal dismissed.
This appeal matter concerns a consumer claim by Mr Burrows, the Respondent to the appeal (the Purchaser). At first instance, he succeeded in obtaining a refund of the purchase price of a second-hand Toyota Hilux purchased by him on 29 June 2013 from a dealer on Parramatta Road, Strathfield, Sydney trading under the name City Cars. A consumer claim includes a claim for the payment of a specified sum of money: s3A(1)(a) of the Consumer Claims Act ,1998 (NSW).
The claim was heard and determined on 9 July 2014. On that date the Tribunal at first instance ordered that Mr Drivas and Mr Dellimanolis, the Appellants (the Sellers), pay the Purchaser $21,000 on or before 6 August 2014. The $21,000 figure was the sum of a cash payment for the vehicle of $19,000 and $2,000 attributed to a trade-in made by the Purchaser. The Tribunal also ordered that the Sellers arrange for the collection of the vehicle on or before the same date, failing which the Purchaser was permitted to dispose of the vehicle by any legal means.
The vehicle was collected by a towing firm on 16 July 2014 and returned to the Sellers. It was common ground that the vehicle was, currently, unroadworthy. However, the order for payment was not and still has not been complied with. A stay of the orders was sought by the Sellers in the Notice of Appeal lodged on 13 August 2014, after the time for compliance with the order for payment had expired. No stay of those orders has ever been granted. A stay was sought at the conclusion of the appeal hearing. We refused that application.
One of the grounds of appeal is said by the Appellants to raise a question of law. Had this been correct, which it is not, the Appellants could appeal as of right on that question. Leave to appeal is sought in respect of all the other grounds of appeal. 
An extension of time was sought in the Notice of Appeal.
Some uncertainty exists about the timing of the lodgement of the Notice of Appeal, which it is unnecessary to clarify. The stamp on the Notice of Appeal shows that it was lodged on 13 August 2014. This is 5 days after the expiry of the 28 day period for lodgement of appeals in these proceedings: see s 25(4)(c) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (NSW). 
At the appeal hearing we were told by the solicitor for the Sellers that one of his clients attended the Tribunal Registry on Friday, 8 August 2014, the last day for lodging in time, paid the Appeal fee, supplied one Notice of Appeal but was told more were needed. He then arranged for more copies. It is said this explains the delay.
After the appeal hearing, the Sellers' solicitor sent us a copy of a receipt from the Consumer, Trader & Tenancy Tribunal showing payment of the Appeal fee on 7 August 2014. In the circumstances, it is now submitted that no extension is required.
Whatever has precisely occurred with the lodgement of this appeal, if an extension of time is needed, then it should be granted in the interests of justice. This is so, in view of the short delay involved, the attempts made to lodge within time, which are now supported by the receipt for payment, and the lack of any specific prejudice to the Purchaser.
The Tribunal at first instance based its decision on the findings of an independent expert relied upon by the Purchaser. This was a report by Mr Colevski of IVIC based upon an inspection and testing of the vehicle carried out on 7 May 2014. 
Prominent amongst the defects identified in that report was extensive rust in the structure of the vehicle in both the left and right hand chassis rails. Important opinions in the report were:
No expert opinion material was adduced by the Sellers at first instance to contradict or undermine these opinions.
The Tribunal at first instance also said:
At first instance, the Sellers argued that the rust and damage must have occurred after the sale, including suggesting that the vehicle had been stolen and left in a river. The Tribunal found that there was no evidence to support this suggestion.
The Sellers relied upon the fact that no reference to rust was made in a report prepared by JC Diesel as a result of a service carried out on the vehicle for the Respondent in July 2013, some three weeks after the sale. 
As to this, the Tribunal referred to a note from the JC Diesel mechanic stating that: 
The Sellers also sought support from in an email the Sellers had received from Mr Colevski subsequent to his expert report. This stated that at the time of his inspection there was no bog or body filler applied to the chassis rails of the vehicle. However, as the Tribunal at first instance pointed out, this email said nothing about the issue of painting over the rust. 
The Tribunal concluded that the submission that there was no rust in the vehicle at the time of sale was categorically contradicted by the IVIC report. 
Whilst the key elements of the Respondent's cause of action were not expressly referred to by the Tribunal at first instance, there was more than sufficient material before the Tribunal from which to conclude that there had been a major failure to comply with a supply guarantee as to quality within the meaning of s 260 of the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) (the ACL). This was so, despite the fact that since the purchase the vehicle had travelled some 25,000 or more kilometres and the Purchaser had used it for some nine months before making his claim in the Tribunal.
In the case of a major failure, one of two options available to a consumer was to notify rejection of the goods: see s 259(3) of the ACL. In such circumstances, subject to loss of the rejection right, the supplier must either refund any moneys paid and an amount equal to the value of any other consideration provided or replace the rejected goods: s 263(4) of the ACL.
The appeal proceeded on the basis that this was the cause of action the subject of the consumer claim. 
The Sellers put forward four grounds of appeal supported by additional written and oral submissions than those outlined, in the following terms:
The Sellers contend that the Purchaser lost his statutory right to reject the vehicle under s 259(3)(a) of the ACL because the time had elapsed after purchase within which it was reasonable to expect the relevant failure to become apparent: s 262(1) of the ACL, and the definition of rejection period in s 262(2). 
The Sellers contend that on this point they appeal on a question of law. The question of law is not precisely identified by them. It concerns the New Zealand case of Nesbit v Porter [2000] NZLR 465 which they submit "can be unequivocally applied". 
The Tribunal at first instance was not referred to this case. Indeed, no argument that the right of rejection had been lost was put to the Tribunal.
The Sellers point out that in Nesbit the Court found that a reasonable time for rejection of the subject vehicle was seven months after purchase, a period that was one month after the next mandatory six-monthly warrant of fitness check. Two passages from that case are also relied upon - one referred to a general rule that the older the goods, the shorter is likely to be a reasonable time for rejection. The other passage said that a relevant factor was whether regular inspections of the goods for defects are customary or required by law.
We do not discern any question of law that is raised by this ground of appeal. Whilst the New Zealand case was concerned with very similar legislative provisions to those contained in the ACL, no issue of construction of the relevant provisions is raised by the Sellers.
Clearly, each case will turn on its own facts. At bottom, the issue raised by this ground is a question of fact as to the time in which it could reasonably be expected that the defect would become apparent.
Plainly, the facts here do not equate to those in the New Zealand case. There are differences in the type, age, use to be made and rusting of the vehicles. Other differences exist as follows:
In any event, the argument that the right to reject was lost is a new point which was not raised at first instance. 
The considerations which greatly restrict the circumstances in which an appeal court will entertain points not raised below on appeal are pertinent: Hudson v Arp 1 (NSW) Pty Ltd [2014] NSWCATAP 31, see also: Suttor v Gundowda Pty Ltd [1950] HCA 35;  (1950) 81 CLR 418 at 438; Coulton v Holcombe [1986] HCA 33;  (1986) 162 CLR 1 at 7. 
The considerations favouring finality of litigation are at least as strong, and probably stronger, in the case of the Tribunal given the importance attached to the expeditious and inexpensive disposition of proceedings Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act).
Generally, a new point will not be allowed where the consequence would have to be a new trial because "evidence could have been given which by any possibility could have prevented the point from succeeding": Suttor v Gundowda at 438.3.
The Sellers submit that all the relevant facts were before the Tribunal at first instance. In particular, they point to the amount of kilometres travelled and the post sale body inspection carried out by JC Diesel. They also say that:
However, one topic that was not addressed in any expert report at first instance was the period in which it would be reasonable to expect the nature and extent of the rusting to become apparent: see definition of rejection period in s 262(2) of the ACL.
Such evidence could have been given in support of the Purchaser's case and there exists, at the very least, the possibility such evidence would prevent the point from succeeding.
Accordingly, we reject this ground of appeal, should we be wrong in our conclusion that no question of law is involved.
It is common ground that leave to appeal on this ground was required: s 80(2)(b) of the Act. 
This being an appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, the scope of the appeal right is further restricted by cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act. By virtue of that provision, the Appeal Panel's discretion to grant leave is only enlivened if the Appeal Panel is satisfied that:
In respect of this ground, the Appellants argued that the decision of the Tribunal was not fair and equitable or was against the weight of the evidence.
Having regard to evidence presented to the Tribunal, in particular the IVIC report, we have already concluded that there was a more than sufficient basis for the Tribunal's decision: see paragraphs 10 to 20 above.
One matter that the Sellers do rely upon in respect of this ground of appeal, in their Grounds of Appeal, but not in their supporting written submissions, is the matter of a pink slip associated with the renewal of registration of the vehicle shortly after the sale. We take it that the argument is that the pink slip would be evidence as to the absence of rust at the time of the inspection for the purpose of obtaining the Slip and, hence, the absence of rust at the time of the sale.
This is not a matter mentioned in the reasons at first instance.
It is not surprising that it was not referred to. Just what pink slip was obtained, if any, and how is unknown. As to this, the Purchaser gave the uncontradicted account that he was told by the Sellers that they would arrange for a pink slip to be lodged with the RMS after the sale. The Purchaser points out that in these circumstances it is difficult to ascertain when or how the associated inspection was carried out because the vehicle was in the Purchaser's possession.
For these reasons, leave to appeal on this ground is refused.
However, apparently, under the cover of this ground of appeal, the Sellers seek to rely on new material in an attempt to establish that significant new damage occurred to the vehicle after the sale.
The Sellers do not relate this argument specifically to any element of the Purchaser's cause of action or to a defence to that cause of action. What the Sellers now say is that they are prepared to offer to fix the rust in the front chassis rail and radiator support bar and repair the left hand sill panel as an offer of goodwill.
The new material sought to be relied upon included a mechanical inspection report from Mr Cosmetatos of Auto Inspect Pty Ltd dated 2 August 2014. This report is based on an inspection of the vehicle at the Sellers' premises on 22 July 2014, after it had been collected from the Purchaser. It also included quotes to repair the alleged new damage at a cost of $16,490.96.
Opinions in the Auto Inspect report included:
The new material also included two emails from Mr Colevski to the Sellers after the hearing at first instance, on or about 6 August 2014. The first email stated that he was not aware the vehicle had travelled 25,000 kilometres after the sale, and that the damage to support brace and cross-member could have "possibly" been damaged from impact after sale.
The second email from Mr Colevski was partially obscured by a photo but included:
It seems unlikely that this obscured reference was to the engine cross-member given that the list of defects in his report included:
The Appellants have not established that this new material was new evidence not reasonably available at the time of the proceedings at first instance, as provided for in cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 of the Act.
The Appellants submitted, without supporting evidence, that the report from Auto Inspect was not able to be presented at the hearing because the Respondent would not agree to access to the vehicle so that it could be inspected by the Sellers expert. No written requests for access were identified nor was the issue of access raised with the Tribunal before or at the hearing on 9 July 2014. 
At the appeal hearing, Mr Boulos, the solicitor for the Sellers, told the Appeal Panel, on instructions from his clients, that two telephone calls had been made by Mr Drivas to the Purchaser. It is said that the first call had been disconnected. In the second call, it is said that the Purchaser told him to speak to his grandfather. It is said that no communication was made to the grandfather because his contact details were not known.
The Respondent disputed that he received these calls.
We have nothing more than assertion about attempts to arrange access and nothing that amounts to a refusal to allow access. In any event, even if these calls were made, having regard to the matters in the last sentence of paragraph 54, they fall short of reasonable attempts by the Sellers to obtain access to the vehicle for the purpose of obtaining their own expert evidence.
There was no attempt to explain, let alone support with evidence, why the information from Mr Colevski in the two emails from him was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing at first instance, either through enquiries of him before the hearing or in cross-examination of him. 
In any event, we do not regard the new material from Mr Colevski as "significant" new evidence. In the first place, he does not say that the information as to the amount the vehicle had travelled caused him to change his opinion about extensive rusting in the IVIC report. Secondly, his evidence about some of the damage rises no higher than the possibility that it occurred after the sale.
It is common ground that leave is required to raise this ground of appeal.
The Sellers contend that a company of which they are directors (Dridel Pty Ltd) (Dridel) was the owner and seller of the vehicle, not themselves. In support they seek to rely on new evidence on the appeal.
The reasons at first instance do not refer to this issue. When asked at the hearing of the appeal whether the point had been raised at first instance, the Appeal Panel was told by Mr Boulos, who did not appear at first instance, after taking instructions from the Sellers, that it had been raised orally at the hearing on 9 July 2014 (we were told it was referred to within the first half hour) but that no evidence had been adduced in support of the point. The Purchaser disagreed that the point had been raised at first instance.
Appeal Member Thode has, since the hearing of the appeal, listened to the recording of the whole of the hearing at first instance. She found that there was no reference to this point. The Appeal Panel then wrote to the parties drawing this to their attention and inviting some further submissions. 
By letter from the Sellers' solicitor dated 28 October 2014, the Appeal Panel were informed that the Sellers withdrew their contention that the point was argued at the hearing at first instance, although it is said that Mr Drivas recalls that the entity, Dridel, was raised at some stage in the proceedings - he says it may have been at the conciliation or a directions hearing. If this was raised at some earlier stage in the proceedings, it seems strange that the point was not raised at the hearing at first instance. In these circumstances, and on the basis of this vague assertion, we are not prepared to find that the point was raised at any stage of the first instance proceedings.
In the letter of 28 October 2014 from the Sellers' solicitor, the following arguments were made as to why the point, nevertheless, should be the subject of leave to appeal:
The background to the joinder of the Sellers as Respondents at first instance is pertinent.
The Application Form lodged by the Purchaser on 30 March 2014, by which these proceedings were commenced, named "CITY CARS" as the Respondent. The following day, NSW Fair Trading, at the request of J Higgins on behalf of NCAT, conducted a business and company name search of "CITY CARS". No record of a company by this name was found but a business name extract was obtained from ASIC showing the business holder details as the Sellers in partnership.
A first hearing of the matter occurred on 24 April 2014. Mr Drivas attended, as did Mr Burrows. Conciliation was unsuccessful and orders were then made for the conduct of the matter to a hearing date to be fixed. Order 2 of those orders amended the name from CITY CARS to the Sellers trading as CITY CARS. This occurred as a result of the business name search obtained by NCAT.
The explanation was offered from the bar table, and to some extent reiterated in the above letter from the Sellers' solicitor of 28 October 2014, that the Sellers were unrepresented at first instance and did not appreciate the significance of the fact that they, and not Dridel, was the Respondent to the claim. However, it was plain that Mr Burrows was making his claim against the seller of the vehicle. It would have been a relatively simple matter to have pointed out that Dridel was the seller and to have presented documents establishing the true position. We are not prepared to accept the Sellers' assertion as to why the Dridel point was not raised at the hearing. In any event, even if it is correct, for the reasons referred to below, it would not change the outcome of this point on the appeal.
On appeal, the Appellants sought to rely on new evidence about the true seller. This included a copy of a certificate of registration for the vehicle in the name of Dridel showing a registration payment date of 25 June 2013 (the purchase date was 29 June 2013) with an expiry date of August 2013. Also, placed before the Appeal Panel were copies of a Motor Dealers Act licence for Dridel with a grant date of 8 August 2012 and a certificate of registration for Dridel as a company (giving a registration date of 13 March 2012). There was also a copy of a Notice of Sale, but this identified only "CITY CARS" as the dealer. No copy of an invoice for the sale has even been adduced.
Clearly, all of these documents, and more complete proof that Dridel was the seller, could readily have been obtained for use at the hearing on 9 July 2013. No evidence was given to suggest otherwise.
We are not prepared to grant leave to pursue this ground of appeal. We are not satisfied that any of the prescribed conditions in cl12(1), (a), (b) or (c) have been established.
Clearly, it cannot be said that the decision below was against the weight of the evidence. At first instance, there was no evidence to suggest Dridel was the seller.
Nor do we think that the decision at first instance was not fair and equitable because of this matter. We can see nothing unfair about the process by which the Sellers came to be the Respondents below. The original Respondent, "City Cars", was not a legal entity. This situation needed to be regularised. The amendment made was sufficiently supported by the business names search. The Sellers had ample opportunity to raise any objection with the course that was being and had been adopted. They had that opportunity at the first hearing of the matter on 24 April 2014, at which Mr Drivas was present, or subsequently, through the service of evidence or other documents to be relied upon, or at the final hearing on 9 July 2014.
The Sellers, without reasons, question the power of the Tribunal to take the course it did but do not contend that it was beyond power. In the circumstances, it is unnecessary and inappropriate to decide the point. However, we do note that at least the following provisions of the Act, provide support for the course that was taken:
The Sellers now complain that there is "no evidence" that the Tribunal explained to the Applicant the importance or consequences of this variation, nor "any evidence" that the Tribunal recommended they seek legal advice about the change. Even if no such explanation or recommendation was supplied, and it was for the Sellers to positively establish the facts they relied upon, which they have not done, the Tribunal's specific responsibility to explain any aspect of procedure or ruling is contingent upon a request that it do so: s 38(5)(b). The Sellers do not contend that there was such request.
Furthermore, there was no suggestion that the Purchaser knew he had not sued the true seller and that he was seeking an unfair advantage in suing the Sellers individually and not the company. 
Finally, it is plain that this was not a point founded on new evidence not reasonably available at the time of the hearing at first instance.
It is apparent from the reasons for decision at first instance that an argument was advanced by the Sellers against a full refund, apparently, on the basis that the Purchaser had the use of the vehicle for more than a year and in that time had travelled some 25,000 kilometres. The legal basis for the argument was not identified at first instance or on appeal.
The Tribunal rejected the argument as follows:
On appeal, the Sellers placed considerable emphasis on the argument that the vehicle was returned with significant new damage.
However, reliance on such damage is another new point not raised at first instance based, as it is, upon the report from Auto Inspect referred to above and the quotes for repair work obtained after the vehicle was collected by the Seller from the Purchaser.
For the same reason given in respect of Ground 2 of the appeal in paragraphs 53 to 57 above, we are not satisfied that the material from Auto Inspect and the quotes are evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing at first instance.
Accordingly, the condition for the grant of leave in cl12(1)(c) has not been established.
Neither of the conditions in cl12(1)(a) and (b) are applicable. It was, at least, open to the Tribunal at first instance to reject the argument for a full refund on the basis that it did. In saying this, we are not to be taken as accepting that the Tribunal had any power to make an order for a partial refund given the terms of s 263(4). However, as the point was not argued, we do not say anything more about it.
In the circumstances, leave to appeal on grounds 2, 3 and 4 is refused. Otherwise, the appeal is dismissed.
The orders of the Appeal Panel are as follows:
############# I'm default separator ##########81
PRIVACY - Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 - definitionof personal information - information or opinion must be about an individual"whose identity is apparent or can reasonablybe ascertained from theinformation or opinion" - whether other documents can be consulted to identifyan individual JURISDCITION - Privacy and Personal Information ProtectionAct 1998 - whether certain conduct was "the subject of" the application forinternal review to the agency and therefore conduct that the Tribunalcanreview
This internal appeal to the Appeal Panel of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal relates to a decision that the Office of Finance and Services breached the Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 (NSW) (PPIP Act). The breaches relate to using and disclosing APV's and APW's "personal information". 
The effect of this conclusion is that the Tribunal's decision that: "[T]he Respondent's conduct in disclosing the Applicants' personal information to the architect was a breach of its obligations under s 18 of the PPIP Act" is set aside.
The second issue relates to the definition of "personal information" in the s 4(1) of the PPIP Act:
To be "personal information" the information or opinion must be about an individual "whose identity is apparent or can reasonably be ascertained from the information or opinion." We have decided that this phrase does not mean that the individual's identity must be apparent or reasonably ascertainable solely from the information or opinion. Depending on the circumstances, other information may be consulted in order to ascertain the identity of the person concerned. In the circumstances of this case where APV's and APW's identity could be ascertained from the information or opinion in combination with information on a website controlled by the agency itself, the information was personal information. 
The effect of this conclusion is that the following decisions of the Tribunal are affirmed: (1) The Respondent's conduct in relation to the sale documents for the property next door which contained aspects of the Applicants' personal information was a breach of its obligations under ss 17 and 18 of the PPIP Act; and (2) the Respondent's use of the Applicants' personal information, for the purposes of the "change of use" application to the Council for the property next door was a breach of its obligations under ss 17 and 18 of the PPIP Act.
APV and APW have a 99-year lease over a property owned by the NSW Land and Housing Corporation. That agency is now part of the Appellant, the Office of Finance and Services. The lease was conditional on APV and APW completing certain renovation and conservation works. APV and APW undertook those and other works over a period of approximately two years at a cost of more than $1,000,000. 
For the purpose of obtaining approval from the Office of Finance and Services for those works, APV and APW provided certain information to Mr Mitchell, an architect and employee of the Office of Finance and Services. 
In December 2011 the Office of Finance and Services engaged a real estate agent to undertake the marketing and sale of a number of properties, including the property next door to APV's and APW's property. Marketing of the property next door commenced in April 2012. From April to June 2012 Mr Mitchell provided information including APV's and APW's names, address, photographs and other information relating to their home and the restoration works, to an external architect. The information was provided so that the external architect could prepare a Conservation Management Plan and a Schedule of Repair Works for the house next door. 
The Conservation Management Plan contained APV's and APW's address, but not their name, and included photographs of the interior and exterior of their property. It also identified works being undertaken at that property. The Schedule of Repair Works contained APV's and APW's address but not their name and included floor plans and internal design features of their property.
From about April 2012 the marketing material for the house next door was disclosed to prospective purchasers of that property who were members of the public. Those materials included the Conservation Management Plan and the Schedule of Repair Works.
On 2 November 2012, the Office of Finance and Services lodged a development application with the City of Sydney for the change in use of the property next door from a boarding house to a single dwelling. In support of that development application, the Office of Finance and Services also lodged a number of documents including the Conservation Management Plans for APV's and APW's property and the property next door.
APV and APW complained that between 31 March and 9 November 2012 the Office of Finance and Services breached the PPIP Act by "using" and "disclosing" information relating to their property. APV and APW sought a review of the Office of Finance and Services' conduct under s 55 of the PPIP Act. The specific conduct which the Tribunal identified as being the subject of the application for review was: (1) disclosing their personal information to an external architect;
The Tribunal determined the application 'on the papers': Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2014 (NSW), s 50(2).
The Tribunal found that information about APV and APW, such as photographs of the interior of their home, was "personal information" even though their names were not part of that information.
The Tribunal accepted the proposition that although s 4(1) states that the identity of the individual must be reasonably ascertainable from the information, reference may be had to other sources. The Tribunal found at [15] that an internet search using the address of APV's and APW's property readily lead to the web page for "NSW Tendering" which contains APV's and APW's names as the successful tenderers for the property at that address. Having made that finding, the Tribunal concluded that the identity of APV and APW could reasonably be ascertained from the information. 
The Tribunal found that the following four categories of information were "personal information": (1) the information supplied by APV and APW to the internal architect, Mr Mitchell including their names and address, photographs of the house, details of the house's layout, design and other features, details of the works, research they had undertaken and their preferences in relation to home design;
The Tribunal concluded that the conduct of the Office of Finance and Services identified in the second, third and fourth categories set out above, breached the information privacy principles in ss 17 and 18 of the PPIP Act. The Tribunal made no finding that the use or disclosure of information supplied by APV and APW to the internal architect, Mr Mitchell, breached the PPIP Act. The Tribunal's reference to "the architect" at [33] was a reference to the external architect, not to Mr Mitchell. (See [23] of the Tribunal's decision.)
A party has 28 days from the day on which that person was notified of the decision to appeal: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014
The Appeal Panel accepted the Amended Notice of Appeal as filed on 22 April 2014. The grounds of appeal, which were confined to questions of law, (NCAT Act, s 80(2)(b)) were as follows: (1) the Tribunal erred in holding that the Office of Finance and Services had breached s 18 of the PPIP Act in relation to the alleged disclosure of information to Mr Mitchell, heritage architect, because the alleged contravention was not the subject of APV's and APW's internal review application and, accordingly, is outside the Tribunal's jurisdiction; and 
The reference to 'Mr Mitchell' in the first ground of appeal is, we assume, a mistake. The Office of Finance and Services intended to refer to the external architect, not to Mr Mitchell who is an employee of the Office of Finance and Services. That error is apparent from the fact that the Office of Finance and Services' written submissions refer to the external architect. 
The reference to the "subject documents" in the third ground of appeal is a reference to Conservation Management Plan and the Schedule of Works for the property next door.
The Office of Finance and Services acknowledged that the second ground (Ground 5 in the Amended Notice of Appeal) only need be addressed if it fails on the first ground. 
The first ground of appeal (Ground 5A in the Office of Finance and Services' Notice of Appeal) was that the Tribunal failed to determine an issue raised by the Office of Finance and Services. The issue was whether the Tribunal has jurisdiction in relation to certain disclosures to an external architect. According to the Office of Finance and Services, the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction because APV and APW did not apply for an internal review of that conduct. 
The Office of Finance and Services first raised the issue of jurisdiction in written submissions to the Tribunal on 30 October 2013:
Without addressing the Office of Finance and Services' submissions to the contrary, the Tribunal found that disclosure of personal information to the external architect was an aspect of the conduct which the Tribunal had jurisdiction to review. The Tribunal concluded, in relation to that conduct, at [33] that the disclosure was a breach of the Office of Finance and Services' obligations under s 18 of the PPIP Act. 
It was an error of law for the Tribunal to fail to address a submission by the Office of Finance and Services that it lacked jurisdiction to review certain conduct. 
The parties filed evidence and made detailed written and oral submissions on the issue of jurisdiction. We understand that they consent to the Appeal Panel determining this issue rather than remitting it to the Tribunal: NCAT Act, s 80(3). We do so only on the basis of uncontested facts. We admitted 'fresh' evidence at the hearing, namely the statements of Ms Dreis dated 5 June 2014 and Mr Balomatis dated 6 June 2014. But APV and APW were not given an opportunity to cross examine those witnesses. In fairness to APV and APW we have not taken any fresh evidence into account on appeal. 
Section 53(1) of the PPIP Act gives a person the right to apply to a public sector agency for "internal review" of conduct about which he or she is aggrieved: 
Pursuant to s 53(3), the application for review must: 
No other requirements are prescribed by the Regulation. 
Section 55(1) gives a person the right to apply to the Tribunal for a review of the conduct "that was the subject of the application" for internal review:
The Tribunal has administrative review jurisdiction over a decision of an administrator if enabling legislation, such as the PPIP Act, provides that applications may be made to the Tribunal for an administrative review: Administrative Decisions Review Act 1997 (NSW), s 9. The jurisdiction conferred on the Tribunal by s 55 of the PPIP Act is an example of administrative review jurisdiction of the Tribunal over conduct: Administrative Decisions Review Act, s 7. 
The Tribunal has jurisdiction to review "the conduct that was the subject of the application" under s 53. It follows that the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction to review any conduct that was not the subject of the application to the agency: Department of Education & Training v GA (No 3)  [2004] NSWADTAP 50 at  [7]. The internal review application sets the parameters for the Tribunal's jurisdiction to review the conduct said to be in breach of the PPIP Act. If, reasonably construed, the internal review application does not identify particular conduct, then the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to review that conduct: KO and KP v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police [2005] NSWADTAP 56 at  [13]; OD v Department of Education and Training (GD)  [2005] NSWADTAP 74 at  [12].
In answer to the question, "What is the specific conduct you are complaining about" (in the application form entitled "Privacy complaint: internal review application" dated 17 December 2012) APV and APW wrote:
The "attached letter" was a letter to the Minister for Finance and Services dated 17 December 2012. The letter states, in part, that:
We note that the letter to the Minister requesting the internal review refers only to Attachments I and L. 
The "extensive file of documents" referred to in the application for internal review was bundles of documents (Attachments A - L) provided to Mr Kanofski at a meeting on 8 October 2012. 
APV and APW also included with their application a document headed "Events to Date" which referred to Attachments D, H, K and L. 
APV and APW submitted that on the basis of the material provided to the Office of Finance and Services, including the "extensive file of documents" and the material referred to in the "Events to Date", they did apply for an internal review of the Office of Finance and Services' conduct in disclosing information to the external architect. They say that is apparent from: (1) the fact that reference is made to the provision of information by Mr Mitchell to the external architect in the "list of events" which APV and APW attached to their application;
The Office of Finance and Services submitted that the application, when reasonably construed, required the internal reviewer to consider the conduct as outlined in the letter to the Minister and as described in Attachments I and L only. Attachments I and L were described by the Office of Finance and Services in the internal review decision dated 11 February 2013 as follows:
APV and APW were asked in the printed application form to identify the specific conduct that they were complaining about. In response to that question, APV and APW referred to the "attached letter", being the letter to the Minister identifying three categories of conduct and referring, in turn, to Attachments I and L. APV and APW also referred to the "extensive file of documents" previously provided. The "List of Events" was included with their application. It referred to several of the same attachments that were in the "extensive file of documents". 
In our view the test for determining whether conduct was the subject of the application for internal review is whether it would have been apparent to a reasonable person conducting the internal review that the conduct was "the subject" of the application. Applying that test, it is not disputed that the application for internal review included conduct identified in Attachments I and L. The Office of Finance and Services referred to the documents in those attachments in the internal review decision. 
For the following reasons it would not have been apparent to a reasonable person conducting the internal review that all the conduct that could be implied from the "extensive file of documents" was "the subject" of the application.
The answer to the question asking the applicants to identify the conduct is the first source of information when identifying the conduct the subject of the application. That answer referred to the letter to the Minister and Attachments I and L. Although it also referred to the "extensive file of documents" no conduct was identified. It is not reasonable to expect officers of agencies to examine every document in an "extensive file of documents" to identify conduct which could possibly have been intended to be the subject of an application. 
The only document relating to the external architect that APV and APW referred to in Attachment L was a four line email from the external architect to Mr Mitchell dated 11 May 2012. That email refers to the content of the Schedule of Works. The existence of that email, even in an attachment referred to in the application form, is not sufficient to make the disclosure of information to the external architect the subject of an application for internal review. It would not have been apparent to a reasonable person conducting the review that APV and APW were applying for a review of that conduct. 
Our conclusion is that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to review the Office of Finance and Services' conduct in disclosing personal information to the external architect. Consequently, the Tribunal's decision that: "[T]he Respondent's conduct in disclosing the Applicants' personal information to the architect was a breach of its obligations under s 18 of the PPIP Act, is set aside.
As the Office of Finance and Services has succeeded on this ground, there is no need to address the alternative ground of appeal that the Tribunal erred in holding that the Office of Finance and Services breached s 18 of the PPIP Act in relation to the alleged disclosure of information to the external architect. 
This ground of appeal concerns the meaning of one part of the definition of "personal information" in s 4 of the PPIP Act. The relevant part of the definition is highlighted in italics: 
It is not in dispute that the personal information in this case was "about an individual". The issue is the meaning of the phrase "whose identity is apparent or can reasonably be ascertained from the information or opinion." The Conservation Management Plan and the Schedule of Repair Works are the documents which the Office of Finance and Services submits do not contain personal information. That submission is made on the basis that the information includes APV's and APW's address and information about the interior of their home, but not their names. The Office of Finance and Services contended that because APV's and APW's identities must be reasonably ascertainable "from" the information, only that information can be examined. Other sources, such as the internet, cannot be interrogated to ascertain a person's identity.
The information in those documents became "personal Information" in the view of the Tribunal because an internet search using APV's and APW's address led to the web page for "NSW Tendering." That website contains APV's and APW's names as the successful tenderers for the property at that address. A member of the public could ascertain the identity of APV and APW from the Conservation Management Plan and the Schedule of Repair Works together with the information on the NSW Tendering website.
The PPIP Act is described in its long title, in part, as "An Act to provide for the protection of personal information, and for the protection of the privacy of individuals generally; and for other purposes." 
Section 4(1) defines personal information. Section 4(3) lists twelve exceptions from the definition including "information about an individual that is contained in a publicly available publication": s 4(3)(b).
Part 2, Div 1 of the Act imposes obligations on "public sector agencies" to comply with certain "information protection principles." Sections 17 and 18 relating to the use and disclosure of personal information are the relevant principles said to have been contravened in this case. Section 17 provides that, subject to certain exceptions, a public sector agency that holds "personal information" must not "use" the information for a purpose other than that for which it was collected. Section 18 provides that, subject to certain exceptions, a public sector agency that holds "personal information" must not "disclose" the information to any other person or body. The Tribunal is yet to determine whether the Office of Finance and Services is entitled to any remedy for those breaches. 
We have concluded that, depending on the circumstances, sources of information other than the information or opinion which contains the personal information, may be consulted to ascertain the person's identity. That conclusion is based on the natural and ordinary meaning of the text. It is also supported by the beneficial purpose of the legislation and the legislative scheme in general. 
The task of statutory construction must begin and end with a consideration of the text itself but that text must be considered in context. The context includes the legislative history and extrinsic materials, but that information "cannot displace the meaning of the statutory text": Federal Commissioner of Taxation v Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd [2012] HCA 55 at  [39]; [2012] HCA 55;  (2012) 87 ALJR 98 at 107  [39] French CJ, Hayne, Crennan, Bell and Gageler JJ. The starting point when construing a statutory provision is the natural and ordinary meaning of the words: Cooper Brookes (Wollongong) Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation [1981] HCA 26;  (1981) 147 CLR 297 at 305, 320-321. 
The definition of personal information states that the information is about an individual "whose identity is apparent or can reasonably be ascertained from the information or opinion." Those words do not mean that other material cannot be consulted. That is obvious from the fact that there are two ways in which information or an opinion may disclose a person's identity. Either the identity is "apparent" from the information or it "can reasonably be ascertained" from that information. The dictionary definition of the adjective "apparent" is "capable of being clearly perceived or understood; plain or clear." (Macquarie Dictionary online). The verb "ascertain" means "to find out by trial, examination, or experiment, so as to know as certain; determine." (Macquarie Dictionary online). By including the option that a person's identity can "reasonably be ascertained" from the information, the legislature was intending to allow a person to find out or determine the identity of the person from the information and, where reasonably identifiable from other information, from that other information.
That construction is supported by the beneficial purpose of the PPIP Act. An interpretation that would promote that purpose is to be preferred to a construction that would not promote it, but the purpose cannot override the clear words in the statute: Interpretation Act 1987 (NSW), s 33. 
The primary focus or purpose of the legislation is to protect the privacy interests of persons about whom public sector agencies collect information: Director General, Department of Education and Training v MT (2006) 67 NSWLR 237;  [2006] NSWCA 270 (29 September 2006) Spigelman CJ (with whom Ipp JA and Hunt AJA agreed) at [29]. Because the PPIP Act is beneficial legislation, it must be interpreted liberally to achieve its beneficial purpose: [49]-[50]. 
We acknowledge, as Spigelman CJ has pointed out, that:
The case of Director General, Department of Education and Training v MT did not relate to the meaning of "personal information" but to whether a public sector agency is liable for the conduct of its employees which had nothing to do with that employee's employment. The Chief Justice's conclusions were made in the context of deciding that the public sector agency was not liable for the employee's conduct. The circumstances of this case do not are different because the definition of personal information is a provision which should be construed beneficially. This is a case where the narrow interpretation put forward by the Office of Finance and Services would defeat the beneficial purpose of the legislation: Khoury v Government Insurance Office of NSW  (1984) 165 CLR 621 at 638 per Mason, Brennan, Deane and Dawson JJ. 
The other parts of the definition of "personal information" also support our view. Section 4(3)(b) states that:
The Office of Finance and Services assumed that the information on the NSW government's tendering website is in a "publicly available publication" and submitted that it would defeat the purpose of the exception in s 4(3)(b) if regard were to be had to such information in determining a person's identity. 
The Tribunal did not need to make a finding about whether the information on the NSW tendering website, linking APV's and APW's address with their names, was information in a "publicly available publication". If that information is a "publicly available publication" the information that APV and APW were the successful tenderers for the property and that they live at that address, is not personal information. But the other information in the Conservation Management Plan and the Schedule of Repair Works, including photographs of the interior of their home, the floor plan and interior design features, was not available on the website and is therefore not excluded from the definition of "personal information" by s 4(3)(b). That conclusion does not have the effect of defeating the purpose of the exception in s 4(3)(b).
The extent to which other information may be consulted to ascertain a person's identity depends on the context in which it is collected, used or disclosed. Various contexts have been considered in previous cases. 
In Re Pfizer and Department of Health, Housing and Community Services  (1993) 30 ALD 25 647, [80] the Administrative Appeals Tribunal interpreted the former definition of "personal information" in s 6 of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) on which the definition in the PPIP Act was based. The AAT held that that "if the identity is apparent or can be reasonably ascertained from a telephone number or other material, then such material would fall within the section." 
The Administrative Appeals Tribunal has given detailed consideration to the equivalent definition of "personal information" in s 4(1) of the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) (FOI Act) (Cth): Re Lobo and Department of Immigration and Citizenship [2011] AATA 705;  (2011) 124 ALD 238 at  [287] - [302]. One issue in that case was whether certain information was exempt from disclosure under s 41(1) the FOI Act (Cth) because it would involve the unreasonable disclosure of "personal information" about any person. Forgie DP concluded at [300] and [301] that if access is given to the document, it becomes part of the information that is available to the public. The Deputy President went on to say that:
Deputy President Forgie then mentioned some examples:
The following year Forgie DP re-iterated and summarised her views: Re Denehy and Superannuation Complaints Tribunal [2012] AATA 608;  (2012) 131 ALD 413 at  [26]. We note that the definition of "personal Information" in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) has been amended. As from 12 March 2014 the relevant part of the definition has been:
Similar recommendations by the NSW Law Reform Commission have not led to any legislative amendment to the PPIP Act: NSW Law Reform Commission, "Access to Personal Information" (Report 126).
While the AAT decisions relate to the operation of the definition of "personal information" in an exemption to the FOI Act, the Appeal Panel of the Administrative Decisions Tribunal has used similar reasoning in relation to the PPIP Act. One issue for consideration in WL v Randwick City Council [2007] NSWADTAP 58 was whether photographs of the inside of a home unit taken by Mr Kerr, a compliance officer employed by the Council, was "personal information" about the owner. The Appeal Panel held at [15] - [16] that: 
The Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal has also taken context into account when interpreting a relevantly identical definition in s 3 of the Information Privacy Act 2000 (Vic) (repealed): WL v La Trobe University  [2005] VCAT 2592. Deputy President Coghlan held at [45] that "the use of the word "ascertained" must allow for some resort to extraneous material unless it is to be regarded as mere surplusage." That conclusion accords with our conclusion that the words "apparent" and "can reasonably be ascertained" mean different things. Without finally determining that issue the Deputy President concluded at [52] that since the process of identifying the complainant's identity involved inquiries and cross-matching from five different databases and then cross-matching with an external database, the person's identity was not reasonably ascertainable from the information or from other material. 
We do not consider, as the Office of Finance and Services submitted that the construction which we prefer produces patently unintended or absurd results: Cooper Brookes (Wollongong) Pty Ltd v FCT [1981] HCA 26;  (1981) 147 CLR 297 at 304 Gibbs CJ, at 321 Mason and Wilson JJ. Contrary to their submissions, it would not be incumbent on agencies to compile a list of key words relevant to each piece of information it holds and then conduct an internet search in respect of each one of those key words. What an agency would need to do, at least in relation to information it is disclosing to the public, is to consider whether having regard to information on a publicly accessible website controlled by the agency and the information it proposes to disclose, the person's identity can be ascertained. An agency would also be obliged to consider whether there is other information that is publicly available from which a person's identity can reasonably be ascertained. Each case will turn on its own facts. Agencies would not be expected to anticipate every possible way in which a person's identity could be ascertained. 
This case concerns a situation where the information - an address, photographs of the interior of a home, the floor plan and interior design features, could be linked to the homeowners' names. That link was available from information on the Office of Finance and Services' own website. We are satisfied that the identity of APV and APW can "reasonably be ascertained from the information or opinion" when reference is made to other information on a publicly accessible website controlled by the agency. 
############# I'm default separator ##########82
FIREARMS LICENSING - Refusal to grant application by former licence holderfor new licence in the public interest - affirmed by Tribunal- Appeal - scopeof appeal - confined to safe storage ground - continued concerns - leave toextend appeal refused - appeal dismissed.Firearms Act 1996, s 11(7), s 39, s40.
On 2 August 2013 the appellant, Mr Leviny, applied under the Firearms Act 1996 (the Act) for a firearms licence Category A. The licensing scheme is administered by the respondent, the Commissioner of Police, through the Firearms Registry. 
Category A covers conventional rifles and shotguns, with special types such as centre-fire, pump-action and self-loading placed in other categories. Mr Leviny wishes to register one firearm only to the licence, a .22 rifle. 
We will not set out the full text of the provisions of the Act applicable to this case. They are set out in the reasons under appeal at para [11] ff. 
In summary, the provisions are s 3(1) (the objects clause, which refers among other matters to the key object of promoting public safety), s 11(7) (the Commissioner's power to refuse a licence application if issue of the licence would be contrary to the public interest), and the safe storage requirements, ss 39, 40. 
On 24 October 2013 the Commissioner's delegate refused Mr Leviny's application. Mr Leviny applied for an internal review. The reviewer confirmed the original decision. The reasons given in the internal review decision issued 3 February 2014 are more detailed than the reasons given in the notice of 24 October 2013. 
In respect of a matter of importance in this case, the internal review reasons accepted, on the basis of medical evidence furnished by Mr Leviny, that there are no concerns with his present mental fitness to possess and use a firearm. The internal review reasons confined the decision to refuse him a licence under s 11(7) to the issue of whether Mr Leviny properly understood the safe storage provisions of the Act and had an appreciation of the importance of abiding by those requirements. The reviewer expressed a lack of satisfaction as to these matters. More specifically, the reviewer stated that s/he could not be satisfied that, if given a further opportunity to hold a firearms licence, Mr Leviny would store firearms in a cupboard (instead of the locked safe) when they are not actually being used. The reviewer expressed the opinion that an omission of this kind would place public safety at risk. 
Mr Leviny applied for external review by the Tribunal. The Tribunal affirmed the decision. Mr Leviny now appeals. 
The case has a wider context. Mr Leviny has been a keen user of firearms since he was a boy, more than 60 years ago. As a farmer and grazier he has used firearms for pest control and for humane killing of distressed animals. He has also been a successful competition shooter. He held for many years until 2012, without concern, the required licences under the various firearms licensing schemes. 
After an incident on 7 June 2012, the local police suspended his licence, and confiscated two rifles (a .22 and a .303). On 18 June 2012 the Commissioner proceeded to revoke the licence. He applied for review, ultimately to the Tribunal. The Tribunal affirmed the Commissioner's decision, and the Appeal Panel subsequently dismissed his appeal against that decision on 23 July 2013: see Leviny v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2013] NSWADTAP 34. 
In that case the Commissioner pressed two grounds for revocation (attempted self-harm, unsatisfactory safe storage practices). The Tribunal at first instance (constituted by Mr S Montgomery, Judicial Member) decided the case by reference to the safe storage ground, and did not make a final ruling in relation to the alleged act of attempted self-harm, the subject of contested evidence. The Appeal Panel, accordingly, confined its consideration of his appeal to the Tribunal's decision on the safe storage ground, and being satisfied with the Tribunal's reasons in that respect, did not traverse the other ground. 
In relation to the current review application, the Tribunal (now constituted by Professor G deQ Walker, Senior Member) heard evidence from Mr Leviny about the events of the days 7-8 June 2012, about the safe storage concerns they were said to reveal, and about his present understanding of his legal obligations, and his practical arrangements and attitude to ensuring that he comply with those obligations. The Tribunal was not satisfied by Mr Leviny's evidence. It referred to a number of matters of concern, the most important of which was its lack of confidence in him having a real commitment to adhere to the strict rules that now apply to the safekeeping of rifles. While he said he had appropriate lock-up receptacles for storage, his attitude to the circumstances in which it was necessary to put aside a weapon and lock it up was relaxed and permissive. He continued, for example, to defend as acceptable his behaviour on the night of 7 June 2012 when he left his rifle in a bedroom cupboard for over an hour, while he answered the phone, worked at his computer and joined his wife for the evening meal. (He used the bedroom window as a location from which to fire at hares and other pests.)
At the appeal hearing, Mr Mattson for the Commissioner, drew attention to cross-examination before the Tribunal in which Mr Leviny gave a number of answers that could be seen as having a selective, and somewhat indifferent, view about the need to comply strictly with the modern standards for safekeeping. He gave, for example, a self-serving interpretation of the circumstances in which a firearm could be said to be in 'use' and therefore, necessarily, not subject to the requirements for safe storage during that period. 
An appeal against a Tribunal decision may be made, as of right, on a 'question of law', and may, with the leave of the Appeal Panel, extend to 'other grounds', i.e. grounds that do not raise questions of law: see Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2014, s 80(2)(b). 
Mr Leviny's notice of appeal referred to a number of matters, and he sought leave for the appeal to be extended to 'other grounds'. He took issue with a number of the observations and conclusions of the Tribunal below. 
It is plain that he is indignant that, throughout the history of the two proceedings, there has been no resolution by the Tribunal of the opinion of the police officers who have made decisions in relation to him that he engaged in an act of attempted self-harm on the night of 7 June 2012 (the two decisions made by the respondent that were the subject of the previous review application, and the first of the two decisions made by the respondent which are the subject of the present review application). Understandably, he sees these opinions as seriously harming his good name and reputation. He considers that their account of events is mistaken in several critical respects, including in relation to the interpretation placed on his wife's conduct on the evening of 7 June in surreptitiously removing the weapons from his control, and contacting the family doctor the next day. He also considers that his overall good record as a safe user of firearms in the past has not been given sufficient weight, and that insufficient recognition has been given to his expressions of remorse for what happened on that night, and his assurances of good conduct in future. 
In reply to Mr Leviny's notice of appeal, the Commissioner contended that none of the several points it raised identified any 'question of law'. Mr Leviny is unrepresented and not legally trained. Again understandably, he responded that it was not clear to him which of his criticisms could be regarded as raising a question of law and which did not. 
We will not retail at length here the contents of the notice of appeal. In our view, the Commissioner's submission was correct. The notice of appeal did not expressly identify any questions of law, and in our view none of the matters raised by the notice of appeal raise questions of law. All the matters raised by Mr Leviny went to the merits of the Tribunal's decision. 
While it is correct, as Mr Leviny pointed out, that the decision of 24 October 2013 did refer to his conduct on the night of 7 June 2012 and gave attempted self-harm issue as a ground for refusal, the Commissioner's final decision of 3 February 2014 made on internal review did not rely on that ground. As we have already noted, the Commissioner's reasons accepted that there was no longer any mental fitness concern. Accordingly, the Tribunal only had before it the safe storage ground. 
As the Commissioner no longer relies on the mental unfitness as a ground for refusal, it would be wrong of the Appeal Panel to examine the question of whether Mr Leviny engaged in an act of attempted self-harm on 7 June 2012. The matter is now outside the scope of these proceedings. 
As to the Tribunal's reasons on the safe storage issue, they are detailed and considered. The reasons accept, without demur, that Mr Leviny was a licensee in good standing for many years, and that he has a general knowledge of the law's safe storage requirements, and understands that they have been toughened on a number of occasions since 1996. But the Tribunal did express concern over whether he genuinely accepted that he should strictly comply with the new rules. 
As occurred before the Tribunal, Mr Leviny made a number of statements at the appeal hearing which suggested that the laws should not apply with equal rigour to a case such as his, and referred to such circumstances as the isolated location of his farm, the unlikelihood of thieves coming to the property, and the reasonableness of not taking measures in some circumstances to restrict the access of his wife, an unlicensed person, to his weapons, because he trusted her. He restated his wide view of when a weapon can be said to be 'in use' and therefore not required to be locked up. Section 40(1)(a) governs this matter. It- is drafted narrowly, and requires the weapon to be locked up in the way set out in the provision when 'not actually being used or carried' (emphasis added). 
He also referred to a statement he had obtained from a gun club secretary, Mr Brendon Colson, and the positive comments it contained in relation to his experience with weapons, and his commitment to safe storage practices. His daughter, Fiona, accompanied him at the hearing, and she gave from the bar table a testimonial in support of her father. She asked for some recognition to be given to his long history, and that some leeway be shown to a person who has had to deal with the transition from the once unregulated world of use and possession of firearms by farmers to one that is now very strictly regulated. 
In our view these are fresh matters that the administrator, the Commissioner, should have the opportunity to appraise in due course. They are not matters that would justify any interference with a well-considered, and comprehensive, decision by the Tribunal below. 
Where there is no error of law in the Tribunal's approach to its task, there should be great care exercised before allowing an appeal to be extended to the merits. 
In this instance we have canvassed a number of Mr Leviny's points as to the merits, but none of them, with respect, warrant taking the step of formally extending the appeal to the merits and, therefore, submitting the application for review to a rehearing, with the consequent demands that would place on the administrator.
Finally, we wish to reinforce a point made to Mr Leviny at hearing. While s 39(1) of the Act requires a person who possesses or uses a firearm to 'take all reasonable precautions' to ensure (a) 'its safekeeping', (b) 'that it is not stolen or lost', and (c) 'that it does not come into the possession of a person who is not authorised to possess the firearm', the question of what is 'reasonable' is not resolved simply by having regard to the subjective explanations of the licence holder as to what he or she might regard as 'reasonable'. It is a standard to be applied in an objective way. In making that objective assessment the mandatory standards laid down in the sections that follow for the different categories of weapon must, at the least, be satisfied. For Category A weapons they are the standards set out in s 40. As noted above, among the s 40 standards is one in relation to the storage of firearms when 'not actually being used or carried' (s 40(1)(a)); and there is a requirement for separate storage of ammunition (s 40(1)(d)). The Commissioner, and the Tribunal on review, was not satisfied that these requirements had been observed in the period 7-8 June 2012, and given the self-justificatory nature of many of Mr Leviny's answers in evidence, the Tribunal remained concerned that he still did not accept that these standards should apply to him in his circumstances. 
In our view, Mr Leviny has continued to manifest a lack of insight into the need for him, in his circumstances, to be able to be trusted to follow storage practices that comply with current standards. 
After his case failed before the Appeal Panel on the last occasion he applied within ten days for a new licence. He did bring an independent and credible report from a consulting psychologist to that process which led to the Commissioner narrowing his grounds for objection to the grant of a new licence. 
It is clear that at this stage those that have reviewed his applications for restoration of a licence (the Commissioner's officers and the Tribunal members on review) remain sceptical of his personal assertions that he will comply strictly in future. For any progress to be achieved by him, he will need to produce independent, credible reports and testimonials, that can be tested by the Commissioner if so desired, on the question of his preparedness to comply strictly with the new standards. He will also have to submit his facilities to inspection, if so desired. (1) Leave to extend appeal to other grounds refused.
############# I'm default separator ##########83
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - whether Notice of Appeallodged within time
The appellants seek to appeal a decision of the Tribunal in the Consumer and Commercial Division, made on Friday, 21 February 2014, relating to a residential tenancy agreement they entered with the respondent landlord, pursuant to the Residential Tenancy Act 2010 (RT Act). It was a 12 month agreement, dated 16 May 2013 and related to a unit owned by the respondent at Wentworth Point. The rent payable was $530.00 per week. 
The appellants vacated the premises early, on 29 August 2013, after having served a termination notice, under section 98 of the RT Act. 
On 12 September 2013, the appellants' commenced proceedings in the Consumer and Commercial Division seeking an order, under subsection 175(1) of the RT Act, for the repayment of their rental bond (file no RT 13/48074) (the appellants' claim). 
On 13 November 2013, the respondent counterclaimed seeking an order for compensation in the sum of $4,989.71, under subsection 187(1)(d) and (e) of the RT Act (file no RT 13/58731) (the respondent's claim). 
The applications were heard together on 21 February 2014. The Tribunal determined each application and prepared written reasons for decision. The written determination and reasons for decision are dated the same day. 
In regard to the appellants' claim (RT 13/48074), the Tribunal ordered:
In regard to the respondent's claim (RT 13/58731), the Tribunal ordered:
On 13 March 2014, the appellants lodged their Notice of Appeal with the Appeal Panel. In that Notice of Appeal, the appellants identified the decision in RT 13/58731 as the decision the subject of their appeal (i.e. the decision in regard to the respondent's claim). The appellants also sought a stay of the orders made by the Tribunal.
On 24 March 2014, the Appeal Panel, constituted by Principal Member M Harrowell determined, on the papers, to refuse the appellant's application for a stay of the Tribunal's orders and made the following directions:
On 31 March 2014, the appellants filed short written submissions and a letter from their doctor. 
On 15 April 2014, the respondent filed and served her Reply to the appellants' appeal. In her Reply the respondent said she supported the orders made by the Tribunal. The respondent said she did not accept that the appellants' appeal was lodged within time and noted that no reason was given for the late lodgement of the appeal. The respondent also opposed leave being granted to the appellants to appeal the decision of the Tribunal. 
On 15 April 2014, the appellants sent an email to the Principal Registry of the Tribunal in which they said the respondent's submission 'should be inadmissable' as they had been lodged after 7 April 2014, as directed by the Appeal Panel.
On 24 April 2014, the Principal Registry wrote to the appellants enclosing a copy of the respondent's Reply to Appeal and requested that they file and serve any written reply they wished to make on or before 8 May 2014. 
The appellants did not file any further material. However, on 7 July 2014, the Principal Registry wrote to the parties and informed them that the matter had been 'referred to the Appeal Panel to decide whether the matter is to be determined on the papers (including tissue that the appeal lodged out of time) and, if so, to determine the application.'
In light of the preliminary issue raised by the respondent in regard to the appellants' Notice of Appeal having been lodged out of time, the Appeal Panel has determined this issue on the papers, pursuant to subsection 50(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
There is no dispute that the appellants' appeal falls within the internal appeal jurisdiction of the Tribunal: see section 32 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
Section 80 of the NCAT Act makes provision for some internal appeals to be as of right and others with the leave of the Appeal Panel. That section relevantly provides:
Clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the NCAT Act prescribes the following limitations on internal appeals against decisions of the Consumer and Commercial Division. That clause relevantly provides:
Clause 25 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2013 (NCAT Rules) prescribes certain procedural rules for lodging an external and internal appeal. That clause relevantly provides as follows: 
As the appellants' appeal is an internal appeal against a decision made in 'residential proceedings' (see clause 3(1) of the NCAT Rules), the 14 day period prescribed in clause 25(4)(b) applies.
Clause 6 of the NCAT Rules makes provision as to how time is to be reckoned. That clause is in the following terms:
Section 41 of the NCAT Act gives the Tribunal (including the Appeal Panel) power to extend time. That section is in the following terms:
In their Notice of Appeal, the appellants state they were notified of the Tribunal's decision on 27 February 2014 and did not indicate whether they did or did not require an extension of time within which to lodge their Notice of Appeal.
The respondent asserts that the appellants' appeal 'was lodged more than double outside the requested time frame.' However, the respondent does not make any submissions as to when she contends time began to run for the purpose of lodging an appeal. 
The Consumer and Commercial Division files record both applications (RT 13/48074 and RT 13/58731) as having been listed for hearing at 9:15am on the morning of 21 February 2014. The files also record the Tribunal having made its determination at 4:50pm that afternoon. Copies of a written notice, addressed to the appellants and the respondent, informing them of the Tribunal's decision in regard to each claim together with written reasons for decision are also contained in each file. Each notice is dated 21 February 2014 and appears to have been sent by post. 
The Tribunal's written reasons for decision do not state the notice of decision or reasons for decision given on an extempore basis, or that notice of the decision or reasons for decision were in fact given to the parties on that day. While the Tribunal Member did note that the applications were heard at a 'formal hearing' where both parties were present that fact does not provide a basis to infer the decision was notified or reasons were given at that time. 
We note section 61 of the NCAT Act provides that a decision of the Tribunal 'takes effect on the date on which it is given or such later date as may be specified in the decision.' Subsection 62(1) of the NCAT Act provides that the Tribunal is to ensure that each party to proceedings (including appeals) is given 'notice' of any decision that it makes in regard to the proceedings. However, as we have noted above, for the purpose of reckoning time for lodging an internal appeal to the Appeal Panel, time does not commence to run until the appellant is notified of the decision the subject of appeal, or given reasons for the decision. 
As noted above, the appellants say they were notified of the decision on Thursday, 27 February 2014. The respondent has not contradicted this statement. 
Hence, on the material before the Appeal Panel we find that the appellants were notified of the decision and given reasons for the decision the subject of this appeal on 27 February 2014. On this basis, the appellants' appeal was lodged with the Principal Registry on the 14th day after the day on which they received notice of the Tribunal's decision and reasons for decision. Consequently, the appellants' Notice of Appeal was lodged within the time prescribed in clause 25(4)(b) of the NCAT Rules (see also clause 6(2) of the NCAT Rules in regard to the reckoning of time).
Clause 26(4) and (5) of the NCAT Rules provide that the Tribunal may direct a respondent to lodge a Reply within a specified period. Where such a direction is made, the Reply is to be lodged within that period, unless the Tribunal grants and extension of time under section 41 of the Act. 
In this appeal, the Appeal Panel directed the respondent to lodge her Reply by 7 April 2014. That Reply was not lodged until 15 April 2014. Accordingly, it was lodged out of time. 
Section 41 of the NCAT Act gives the Tribunal a discretion to extend time, of its own motion, or on application by any person and such time can be extended even though the relevant period of time has expired. 
The respondent has not sought an extension of time within which to lodge her Reply. However, in our view, as a Reply is a response to a Notice of Appeal and does not initiate an appeal, time should be extended unless it can be shown that an extension of time would unduly prejudice the appellant in his/her appeal. In this appeal, the appellant has not pointed to any prejudice if time is extended. Accordingly, it is appropriate to extend the time within which the respondent is to file and serve her Reply to appeal to 15 April 2014. 
For the reasons set out above the Appeal Panel finds that the appellants have lodged their Notice of Appeal within time. Time has also been extended for the respondent to file her Reply. 
As the appellants have objected to their application for leave to appeal and their appeal to be heard on the papers it is appropriate to make orders for the filing of any further material by the parties and to set the matter down for a short half day hearing. 
On this basis the Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) The Appellants' Notice of Appeal has been lodged within time.
############# I'm default separator ##########84
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - Applicationfor leave - No basis for leave - Appeal dismissed.
In 2013, the respondent Lionel Fay (Mr Fay) purchased spare car parts from the appellant, Wanted Autos Pty Limited (Wanted Autos). He paid Wanted Autos the sum of $1,560. The goods were not delivered. He began proceedings in the Tribunal.
Orders were made by the Tribunal on 17 September 2013 (wrongly stated as 17 September 2014 in the notice of order of 13 May 2014) requiring the goods to be delivered in accordance with the orders. Mr Fay considered that had not been done. On 28 February 2014 he filed an application to renew the proceedings, seeking payment of the amount of $1,650.00 plus costs. On 13 May 2014, following a further hearing at which Mr Fay appeared but Wanted Autos did not, the Tribunal ordered that Wanted Autos pay Mr Fay $1,560 on or before 13 June 2014. The reasons for that decision stated
Wanted Autos filed a Notice of Appeal on 11 June 2014, challenging those orders. The Notice of Appeal lists the following grounds of appeal:
The decision below was made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. It was a "Division decision" within the meaning of cl 12(1), Schedule 4 of the Act: see the definitions of "the Division" and "Division function" in cl 1 and the provisions of cl 3(1) of Schedule 4. Thus we must be satisfied of the matters set out in cl 12 of Schedule 4 to the Act before the discretion to grant leave can be exercised. That clause provides:
These provisions were examined in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [65]- [79], which also decided that even if the Appeal Panel is so satisfied, there is a discretion to grant leave, and at that second stage further principles are to be considered, namely (at [84]):
Attached to the Notice of Appeal are a number of pieces of 'new evidence'; namely, a document from the appellant signed by 'Joseph S' stating that Mr Fay had agreed at the hearing in April to collect the parts and pay the difference for the transport of the spare parts, so, as it is put, it was simply a matter of Mr Fay picking up the goods. There is also an email from the couriers, dated 2 September 2013. A further email from Wanted Autos of 2 June 2014 and another document from Wanted Auto together with the courier's documents.
None of that is 'new evidence' in the sense of information which was not known to the appellant prior to the April hearing. There is no explanation as to why, as asserted in the Notice of Appeal, the appellant first became aware of this evidence on 2 June; rather, the documents on their face show that the information was known to the appellant at least at the time of the hearing which led to the orders now challenged. 
In relation to the assertion that the decision was not fair and equitable, the appellant simply said 'we did send the parts to his address'.
In response, this submission was received on 29 September 2014:
The position is clear. Orders were made last September that the goods be delivered. In April a further hearing was held of which the appellant had notice, but did not attend. The evidence presented on that occasion demonstrated the goods had not been delivered. In the circumstances, the orders made were evidently the correct and preferable decision; namely, non-compliance with the 17 September 2013 orders had led to an order for repayment of the sum for the undelivered goods.
The appellant simply asserts that there had been delivery, when that was not the evidence at the hearing. Far from the decision of the Tribunal being against the weight of the evidence, there was no evidence from the appellant at the hearing, as they did not attend it. There is no new evidence which was not capable of being provided by the appellant at the hearing in April. We thus decline to admit it.
Accordingly, none of the preconditions for establishing a possible substantial miscarriage of justice within the meaning of Cl 12 of Schedule 4 to the Act has been established. Even if we were wrong as to that conclusion, none of the factors mentioned in Collins v Urban at [84] are here demonstrated.
The application for leave to appeal must be refused, and the appeal itself must be dismissed. We so order.
############# I'm default separator ##########85
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - whether grounds raise aquestion of law - whether leave to appeal is required -Civil and AdministrativeTribunal Act 2013 (NSW), s 80, cl 12 of Sch 4 - whether decision fair andequitable - whether decision against the weight of the evidence - discretion tograntleave not enlivened - leave application refused. APPEAL - error oflaw - whether Tribunal jurisdiction derived from Motor Traders Act 1974 -whether no evidence to support findings- whether failure to afford proceduralfairness - appeal dismissed.
The respondent, Mr. Paul Madsen, purchased a second-hand Agrison brand tractor from the appellant, Agrison Pty Ltd (Agrison), on 3 April 2013. The tractor was purchased as part of a "package" which included a "complementary" slasher, a pair of spare slasher blades, a "clean and service" and payment for 4 years parts, warranty and freight. Mr Madsen complained about a number of items in the first few days after the equipment was delivered. On 5 May 2013 (although this finding at [24] of the reasons for decision of the Tribunal below may be a slip and the date should have been recorded as 5 June 2013) the respondent filed an application with the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (CTTT), the predecessor to the Consumer and Commercial Division of this Tribunal.
The parties in the CTTT were self-represented. On 16 May 2014, General Member Anforth, sitting as a Member of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal pursuant to cl 7 of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act), made the following orders together with the accompanying reasons (the decision):
The former CTTT had, and this Tribunal has, power to make those orders pursuant to s 8 of the Consumer Claims Act 1998 (the CC Act) - see for example s 8(1)(h)(i) and (ii). It was raised as an issue in this appeal whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction under the Motor Dealers Act 1974 (the MD Act) and this will be dealt with later in these reasons. 
The decision by Member Anforth is a general decision of this Tribunal: see s 29 of the Act and NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Diab [2014] NSWCATAP 8 at  [39]- [51]. This decision may be appealed to the Appeal Panel under ss 80 and 32 of the Act. 
The appellant appeals from the decision of 16 May 2014. All the orders made on 16 May 2014 are challenged. 
The appeal was filed on 28 May 2014, well within the 28 day time limit pursuant to Rule 25(4)(c) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 ("the Rules"). In answer to question 12B on the Notice of Appeal, the Appellant seeks leave to appeal.
The appeal is said to raise questions of both law and fact.
The appeal was heard on 24 September 2014 and the decision was reserved.
For the reasons following, the Appeal Panel has decided: (1) the appeal should be dismissed in relation to the questions of law which were raised; and
The appellant lists 7 separate grounds of appeal which were a little more discursive than is set out below but which may be summarised as follows: (1) Ground 1: The MD Act is state legislation, binding on dealers in NSW while Agrison is solely based in Victoria. The MD Act therefore does not apply and there is an error of law in applying the incorrect law to the this matter.
As the Appeal Panel understands it, the appellant, in the above grounds, is specifying in substance 4 different categories of grounds of appeal: (1) errors of law in relation to the jurisdiction of the Tribunal under, or in the application of, the MD Act, the CC Act and the FT Act - grounds 1 and 2;
Section 80 of the Act, makes provision as to when an appeal is as of right or when leave must be obtained:
The grounds 1 and 2 which relate to error in the application of various statutes, grounds 5 and 7 in so far as they contend that there was no evidence to support certain findings and ground 6 relating to procedural unfairness, all raise questions of law and leave to appeal is not required. 
Grounds 3 and 4 which relate to the findings that should have been made or the weight which should have been given to certain evidence raise questions other than a question of law and leave to appeal is required in respect of them. In so far as grounds 5 and 7 raise the issue that the findings referred to should not have been made, rather than the issue that there was no evidence to support those findings, leave to appeal would also be required. 
Clause 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the Act provides a strict regime in relation to an appeal against a decision made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal. It is in the following terms:
As noted above, the appellant does seek leave to appeal and in doing so relies on the grounds that in relevant respects the decision: (1) was not fair and equitable; and
In relation to grounds 1 and 2 concerning the MD Act, the CC Act and the FT Act, the appellant submitted that the MD Act was NSW legislation and so was not binding on the appellant company which is incorporated in and based in Victoria. On this basis it was said that any reference to that Act should be struck out as it involved an error of law. The finding of a breach of the MD Act was thus not open to the Tribunal. 
In addition, it was submitted that the CC Act and the FT Act have been replaced by the Australian Consumer Law and those Acts are therefore obsolete. Thus, the decision could not be based on those Acts and it was an error for the Tribunal to base its decision on them. 
As to procedural unfairness, it was submitted in effect that the Tribunal relied on evidence submitted by the respondent (the applicant in the proceedings at first instance) to the Tribunal at the hearing on 17 September 2013, being certain measurements of the equipment or parts of the equipment, and the appellant was not present at that hearing, having been advised by the Tribunal that the hearing would be adjourned because of administrative errors or difficulties. Although, the Tribunal stated at [93] that the hearing proceeded and that the appellant suffered no unfairness "as they had the opportunity to attend the hearing", in fact, the appellant was ready, willing and able to attend the hearing but did not do so on the advice of the Tribunal itself. Contrary to the appellant's submission that the subject measurements should be struck out on the basis of procedural unfairness, this was not done and the appellant has suffered a miscarriage of justice as a result. 
In relation to the factual matters, the Appeal Panel understands the appellant to be relying on submissions to the following effect both in relation to the question of leave to appeal and in relation to any appeal if leave were granted: (1) Decision not fair and equitable:
The submissions referred to above also covered the factual matters in relation to which it was said that there was no evidence to support the Tribunal's findings. 
The respondent provided a formal Reply to Appeal including a statement of opposition to leave being granted (in response to item 10 of the Reply to Appeal) and a "Reply to Grounds" (in response to item 8 of the Reply to Appeal).
The respondent opposed granting leave to appeal and made submissions, as the Appeal Panel understood them, to the following effect in relation to both on the question of leave and on the appeal itself: (1) The grounds of appeal in relation to the application of the MD Act, the CC Act and the FT Act were misconceived and the Tribunal explained its jurisdiction in [37] of the reasons for decision.
In his submissions, the respondent also stated that while he was aware he was purchasing a second hand tractor, he did not know that he was purchasing a tractor with numerous defects. He submitted that the Tribunal's conclusion that he was misled as to the condition of the tractor as it did not correspond with the description given by the appellant was correct.
In summary the respondent submitted the appellant "has no grounds of appeal". 
The Tribunal below dealt with the MD Act at [157] to [161] and concluded at [161] that the appellant had not complied with the "statutory guarantee" contained in s 27 of that Act. Section 27(1) provided:
Section 28(3)(d) of the MD Act had the effect, however, of excluding a vehicle such as the tractor in the present case from the operation of s 27. Section 28(3)(d) was in the following terms:
A "commercial vehicle' was defined in s 4(1) of the MD Act as meaning "a motor vehicle constructed or adapted principally for ... agricultural use". 
Accordingly, that Act did not relevantly apply to the appellant in the present case in any event. To that extent, the Tribunal below made an error of law. That error does not, however, have the consequence that the appeal should be allowed and the decision should be set aside. The Tribunal at first instance made it clear that its decision was not based solely on a breach of the MD Act. At [162], it held:
From this it follows that the orders made by the Tribunal are supported by other findings of breach of the Australian Consumer Law and do not depend on the finding that the MD Act has been breached. Consequently, even if the finding based on the MD Act was erroneous, the orders should not be set aside as they were supported on other grounds. 
Under ground 1, however, the appellant did not put its case on the basis referred to in the preceding paragraphs. Rather, it argued that there the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to determine the claim based on contravention of the MD Act because it was incorporated and carried on business in Victoria not New South Wales. 
The Tribunal below discussed the question of jurisdiction at paragraphs [36] to [42] of its reasons. The Tribunal correctly found that it had jurisdiction to hear the application pursuant to the CC Act, s 7. It did not and does not obtain its jurisdiction pursuant to the MD Act. The jurisdiction under the CC Act is limited by s 7(2) in a number of ways but includes claims made in respect of goods supplied in New South Wales - see paragraph (a) of s 7(2). It was not in dispute that the tractor and slasher were delivered to the respondent in NSW under a contract of sale and thus were supplied in this State. Thus, the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear and determine the claim on that basis. Notwithstanding this, as we determined above, s 27 of the MD Act was not applicable in this case. 
For those reasons, the appeal based on ground 1 should be dismissed. 
The appellant's submission that the CC Act and the FT Act are "obsolete", having been replaced by the ACL, is misconceived. 
As the Tribunal stated in paragraph [43] of its reasons, the ACL is incorporated into the law of NSW by s 28(1) of the FT Act. Other provisions concerning the ACL and its application in New South Wales are found in Part 3 of the FT Act. That Act has not been repealed or otherwise rendered "obsolete" in NSW. 
Similarly, the CC Act is still in force and continues to give the Tribunal jurisdiction to hear and determine consumer claims as defined in that Act.
There is no error by the Tribunal below as contended for in ground 2 of the grounds of appeal. As a result, the appeal on this ground should be dismissed. 
Ground 5 was stated as being that there was no evidence that the machine was unsafe. Similarly, ground 7 involved the contention that there was no representation that the tractor was new or as new. 
The appellant's written submissions developed ground 5 in the following way:
From this it can be seen that the substance of the submissions was not that there was no evidence but rather that the evidence relied upon was preferred to that of the expert Engineer, Mr Banks, relied upon by the appellant. Accordingly, it is not correct to say that there was no evidence to support the Tribunal's finding and ground 5 has, to that extent, not been made out. In so far as this ground should be treated as raising the question of whether the factual finding as to the tractor and slasher being unsafe should have been made, leave to appeal would be required. 
As to ground 7, that there was in fact no representation that the tractor was new or as new, this can be taken as raising the question of whether there was any evidence to support such findings. The finding made was that the tractor was described as being "as new" and the slasher was new - see for example at [1]. As the Appeal Panel understands it, there was no dispute but that the slasher was new. As to the state of the tractor, the Tribunal's analysis was at [142] to [145]:
From this it is clear that there was evidence to support the finding that a representation was made that the tractor was in as new condition. Accordingly, ground 7 to the extent that it raised a question of law has not been made out. Whether leave to appeal should be granted in respect of that ground will be addressed below. 
This ground was based on the contention that there had been a lack of procedural fairness accorded to the appellant as a result of what occurred on 17 September 2013 when a directions hearing had been scheduled in this matter before the Tribunal. The references in the reasons for decision as to what occurred are found at [30] and [93] and are as follows:
Although what actually happened on 17 September 2013 was somewhat unclear, on the basis of the written material before the Panel on the appeal and the oral statements of the parties at the appeal hearing, the Appeal Panel finds that a directions hearing was scheduled to take place on 17 September 2013. On that date, the respondent attended in person but there was no appearance for the appellant. The Appeal Panel is prepared to accept that the appellant had, somewhat late in the piece, informed the registry that the appellant would be attending by telephone. In addition, when it was discovered that no telephone was available at the hearing venue, the registry did contact a representative of the appellant to inform it that because there was no telephone available the directions hearing would need to be adjourned. However, the Member of the Tribunal who was to conduct the directions hearing was present in the hearing room as was the respondent. Without a directions hearing taking place, the respondent, who had brought the slasher blades with him together with some measurements, drew the Member's attention to this material. The Member told the respondent that he should take photographs of the blades and the measurements and provide copies to both the Tribunal and the appellant. Nothing further occurred on that occasion. The photographs and the respondent's explanation were provided to the appellant in the second half of October 2013. This material was what was identified as "Paul Madsen, Submission (17 October 2013)" in footnote 19 of the reasons for decision. 
The matter was heard on 4 December 2013 and the appellant had the opportunity to put on final written submissions after the end of the oral hearing. 
The appellant contended that this amounted to a failure by the Tribunal to afford it procedural fairness and thus the Tribunal had fallen into error in the manner in which it had conducted the proceedings. 
In submissions, the appellant was unable to point to any prejudice that had suffered as a result of what occurred on 17 September 2013. The Appeal Panel finds that the appellant, having received a copy of the photographs and the other material contained in the Submission of 17 October 2013 did have the opportunity to address the issues raised by that information before the final hearing and indeed by way of written submissions after the end of the oral hearing. 
In relation to procedural fairness, Gleeson CJ in Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex parte Lam [2003] HCA 6,  214 CLR 1 held at [37]:
The Appeal Panel is of the view that the appellant suffered no practical injustice as a result of what occurred on 17 September 2013. There was no failure by the Tribunal to afford procedural fairness to the appellant. 
Consequently, the appeal based on ground 6 should also be dismissed. 
Thus, the appeal to the extent that it is based on questions of law should be dismissed. 
The appellant requires leave to appeal in respect of grounds 3 and 4 and, to the extent that they raise factual challenges to the findings, grounds 5 and 7. 
Under c 12(1) of Schedule 4, which has been set out above, the Appeal Panel may only grant leave to appeal if it satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a serious miscarriage of justice because the decision was not fair and equitable, was against the weight of the evidence or there is significant new evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing. 
The appellant seeks leave to appeal on the grounds that the decision: (1) was not fair and equitable; and
In relation to the question as to whether a "serious miscarriage of justice" has occurred, the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because of one of the relevant circumstances referred to in cl 12(1)(a), (b) or (c), where there is a "significant possibility" or a "chance which was fairly open" that a different and more favourable result would have been achieved for the appellant had the relevant circumstance not occurred before the Tribunal at first instance (see Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [68] to [76]). 
For the purposes of this appeal, the Appeal Panel accepts that had the decision not been fair and equitable, or if the decision was against the weight of the evidence, then the appellant may have suffered a serious miscarriage of justice. The issues to decide are: was the decision fair and equitable, or was it against the weight of the evidence.
For the decision to be fair, it must be free from bias, dishonesty or injustice. The decision must be arrived at legitimately applying normal procedures and legal principles. For the decision to be equitable, it must be impartial and reasonable. In this case, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the appellant has demonstrated the decision is not fair and equitable. 
There is no indication in the decision or otherwise that the Tribunal below was either biased or not impartial. The Member considered carefully the evidence and submissions provided by both parties and his findings were made following a consideration of that evidence and those submissions without any suggestion of partiality. Partiality is not established by the fact that the Member preferred the evidence of one witness to that of another or that he did not accept the evidence of an engineer instead of that of a mechanic, in circumstances where the Engineer's opinion was based on assumptions of fact that were not correct. There is no indication that the Member failed to permit either party properly to present their case. Based on the Member's consideration of the evidence as it was set out in some detail in the reasons for decision, the Appeal Panel considers the decision to be reasonable (in the sense of having a rational basis deriving from the evidence) and clearly explainable in terms of the evidence before the Tribunal and the applicable law. Furthermore, the Member did not always find in favour of the Mr Madsen (see paragraphs [135]-[139] of the decision).
The Appeal Panel has already concluded that the Tribunal below did not fail to accord the appellant procedural fairness as a result of what occurred on 17 September 2013 and this aspect of the proceedings does provide a basis for concluding that the decision was not fair and equitable. 
Thus, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that there is any proper basis for characterising the decision as not fair and equitable. 
In Collins v Urban [2014] NSWCATAP 17 the Appeal Panel has also summarised the principles in relation to when a decision is against the weight of the evidence at [77]:
Accordingly, the appellant has to show that the conclusions reached by the Tribunal were not reasonably open on the material before it. 
As to ground 3 which related to whether the goods were of acceptable quality and fit for purpose, the substance of the appellant's point was that the slasher was not defective and thus the Tribunal should not have found that the "package" in its entirety was not of acceptable quality or not fit for purpose. 
The Appeal Panel accepts that the Tribunal found at [96], in a section headed "Free from Defects (Slasher)" ([86] to [96]), that "[t]he slasher itself may not be defective but its supply as part of a package with the particular tractor made it unfit for its known and intended use". This, however, followed an earlier conclusion that the tractor was defective - see for example at [85] on the basis set out at [69] to [84]. Further, the Tribunal's relevant conclusions concerning how the slasher and tractor worked together and the suitability of the slasher for the intended use are found at [64] where the Tribunal held:
The Appeal Panel does not accept that these findings were against the weight of the evidence.
As to ground 4, this ground challenged whether the conclusion that the tractor was not of acceptable appearance was erroneous because the Tribunal has not had regard to the price of the machine, the brand being one of the cheapest in the market and that the appearance does not affect the function of the frame or the front end loader. 
The Tribunal dealt with the question of acceptable appearance at [65] to [68]. From these paragraphs it appears that any area of dispute was very limited. The Tribunal noted in the paragraphs that: (1) the chassis or front frame work was lop sided or twisted;
The Tribunal then concluded at [68]:
It is implicit in this reasoning that the Tribunal was taking into account not only the appearance of the tractor but also other relevant circumstances such as the age and similar matters when assessing whether the appearance was acceptable. The conclusion was not against the weight of the evidence, as explained above. 
As to ground 5, this concerned the conclusion that the tractor was not safe. In its submissions the appellant submitted that "[t]his decision is merely based on photographs provided, and with a complete disregard for submissions made by Engineer". Whilst this submission acknowledges that the conclusion was based on some evidence, it is not correct to say that the Tribunal's conclusion was based "merely" on photographs. It was based upon: (1) the material which had supported the finding that the tractor was defective - see [97];
In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the conclusion that the tractor was unsafe was against the weight of the evidence. 
As to ground 7 which related to whether the Tribunal should have concluded that the appellant represented that the tractor was as new, the Tribunal identified and considered the evidence at [142] to [145]. There obviously was evidence to support the conclusion and there is nothing in the reasoning of the Tribunal or the submissions of the appellant which would provide a satisfactory basis for concluding that the Tribunal's conclusion was against the weight of the evidence in the sense explained above. The Tribunal's finding was reasonably open on the material before the Tribunal and was not against the weight of the evidence. 
On these bases and in the light of the Panel's conclusions that the decision was fair and equitable and was not against the weight of the evidence, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the appellant might have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on either of the bases specified in cl 12(1) of Schedule 4 to the Act upon which the appellant relied. Consequently, the Panel's discretion to grant leave to appeal was not enlivened. Accordingly, the application for leave to appeal should be refused.
It follows from what has been said above that the Appeal Panel is of the view that the appeal on questions of law should be dismissed and the application for leave to appeal on other grounds should be refused.
Accordingly, the Tribunal makes the following orders: (1) Leave to appeal is refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########86
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - notice of contention -taxes and duties - payroll tax - grouping provisions - whetherappellant shouldexercise discretion to exclude a member from a group under Payroll Tax Act 2007(NSW), s 79 - revenue ruling - legitimate expectation.
The Payroll Tax Act 2007 (NSW) (the PT Act) levies tax on employers (and deemed employers) in respect of wages (and deemed wages). Part 5 of the PT Act provides for the grouping of businesses. Businesses may be grouped on a variety of bases including as a result of the use of common employees (s 71 of the PT Act). The significance of grouping may be found in the liability provisions. Section 81 of the PT Act provides for joint and several liability for group members. Tax is calculated in accordance with Schedule 1 of the PT Act. A group is entitled to a single tax free threshold, whereas taxpayers who are not members of a group are each entitled to a tax free threshold. 
The underlying dispute in this appeal concerns the appellant's (the Chief Commissioner's) decision, in relation to financial years 2008 to 2012, not to exclude one or more of the respondents from payroll tax groups. 
It was common ground, at first instance and at the hearing before the Appeal Panel, that pursuant to s 71 of the PT Act one of the respondents, Seovic Civil Engineering Pty Ltd (Civil), was correctly grouped with another of the respondent, Exell Management Pty Ltd (Exell), and that Exell was correctly grouped with Seovic Engineering Pty Ltd (Engineering). Further, it was agreed by the parties that as a result of these two groups and s 74 of the PT Act (as to the combining of smaller groups), all three respondents constituted a group. The only issue was whether the Chief Commissioner should have exercised his discretion, found in s 79 of the PT Act, to exclude one or more of the respondents from the groups. 
At first instance, the Tribunal ordered that the matter be remitted to the Chief Commissioner to exercise his discretion under s 79 of the PT Act to exclude Exell from the group constituted by Civil and Exell and to exclude Exell from the group constituted by Engineering and Exell. This produced the automatic result that the larger group was dissolved: at [44] of Seovic Civil Engineering Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2014] NSWCATAD 52 (the Decision). 
Section 80(1) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act) provides that an appeal against an internally appealable decision may be made to the Appeal Panel. An internally appealable decision is defined in s 32 of the Act to include a general decision made by the Tribunal. A general decision is defined in s 29 of the Act as a decision made in the exercise of the Tribunal's general jurisdiction which is, in turn, ascertained by reference to legislation other than the Act. In this case, the Tribunal's general jurisdiction was enlivened by s 96 of the Taxation Administration Act 1996 (NSW). 
By s 80(2) of the Act, an appeal from an internally appealable decision lies, as of right, on any question of law or, with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other grounds. 
The appellant is not seeking leave to appeal. The questions for the Appeal Panel are whether a question of law arises and, if so, whether there has been an error of law.
It is necessary that a question of law be stated with precision, as an appellant's right to appeal to the Appeal Panel arises from the question of law and is the subject matter of the appeal. This was recently highlighted by the Court of Appeal, in the context of an appeal from a decision of the Appeal Panel to the Supreme Court, in Ferella v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2014] NSWCA 378: see in particular Leeming JA at [3] and White J at [22]. The difficulties in formulating a question of law are referred to by Leeming JA at [4] to [6]. The importance of the question of law was the subject of extensive consideration by the Appeal Panel in Prendergast v Western Murray Irrigation Ltd [2014] NSWCATAP 69 at  [11] and [13]. 
The grounds of appeal here are as follows:
In effect, the appellant contends that on the facts as found, the Tribunal could not have been satisfied that the statutory test was met. 
In Lombard Farms Pty Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2013] NSWADTAP 42 at  [9] to [23] the Appeal Panel considered the distinction between questions of law and fact. Where what is alleged is that the facts as found are incapable of satisfying the statutory provision, a question of law arises. 
In the reply to appeal, the respondents contended that no question of law arose and that the notice of appeal disclosed questions of fact only. In the alternative, the respondents contended that if a question of law arose, then no error was made. 
Ultimately, at the hearing before the Appeal Panel, the respondents properly conceded not only that the notice of appeal raised questions of law, but that the Tribunal's orders could not be sustained on the reasoning of the Tribunal. The respondents accepted that Exell did not satisfy the preconditions for the exercise of the Chief Commissioner's discretion to exclude it from the groups. 
The respondents' primary contention was that Civil and Engineering ought to have been excluded from the groups: matters not considered by the Tribunal at first instance.
The notice of reply to appeal is in a standard form. Question 9 asks as follows:
In effect, question 9 acts as a notice of contention and asks whether the respondent contends that the orders of the Tribunal are correct, but for reasons other than those relied upon by the Tribunal at first instance. 
In this case, the box marked "yes" was checked. The respondents specified that the order supported was the order to remit the matter to exclude Exell from the group constituted by Exell and Civil and to exclude Exell from the group constituted by Exell and Engineering: see [44] of the Decision. 
No grounds for supporting the order were provided in the notice of reply to appeal, but this was the subject of submissions to the Appeal Panel by all parties. 
The respondents' primary contention was that, from the individual perspectives of Civil and Engineering, they each satisfy the preconditions for exclusion from the groups. Accordingly, the Tribunal's order to remit and exclude Exell could be supported for the reason that each of Civil and Engineering should be excluded from the groups which included Exell. 
Additionally, the respondents contended that they had a "legitimate expectation" that Revenue Ruling PTA017 (the Ruling) would be followed, and this would lead to Civil and Engineering being excluded from the groups. 
Section 81 of the Act identifies the orders that an Appeal Panel may make in respect of internal appeals. Relevantly, s 81(1) provides:
The decision under appeal required the appellant to exercise his discretion under s 79 of the PT Act to exclude Exell from the group constituted by Civil and Exell and to exclude Exell from the group constituted by Engineering and Exell. The respondents are, in effect, arguing that the proper order should have been that the appellant be required to excluding Civil or Engineering rather than Exell from the groups in question. There appears to be no difference in substance between the order appealed from and the order supported by the respondents despite the difference in the entity to be removed from the group. 
In these somewhat unusual circumstances, the Appeal Panel has decided that, in order to comply with the guiding principle in s 36(1) of the Act and to act without undue regard to technicalities, it is appropriate on the appeal to determine whether the decision at first instance to remit the matter to the Chief Commissioner to exclude a member from the payroll tax groups, ought to be supported on grounds other than those relied upon by the Tribunal at first instance. None of the parties opposed this approach being taken
Whilst there was a contest between the parties as to whether the "legitimate expectation" issue was raised at first instance, the appellant did not object to the Appeal Panel considering that issue.
There was no dispute as to the primary facts. During the relevant years Exell's only business activity was as a provider of contract workers to Civil and Engineering ([3] of the Decision). Furthermore, during the relevant period it was accepted that Engineering carried on a mechanical engineering business specialising in repair and maintenance of mining equipment whereas Civil carried on a civil engineering business specialising in concrete slip forming. It was also accepted that Civil and Engineering each carried on a business independently and without any connection with each other. They were only grouped during the relevant period because contract workers were supplied by Exell to both Civil and to Engineering (at [41] of the Decision). 
The Tribunal then determined as follows:
As noted above, the respondents did not attempt to support the Tribunal's reasoning at [43] of the Decision and instead relied upon the contention that each of Civil and Engineering satisfied the requisite test of independence and lack of connectivity; and further that they each fell within the ambit of the Ruling which warranted exercise of the discretion in their favour. 
As already noted, there was no dispute that the respondents were correctly grouped under the Act. The only question was whether they should be excluded from a group pursuant to s 79 of the Act. The relevant group to consider is the group formed under s 74, the larger group made up of the two smaller groups and containing each of Civil, Engineering and Exell: Chief Commissioner of State Revenue v Tasty Chicks Pty Ltd [2012] NSWCA 181 at  [44]. 
Section 79 of the PT Act provides as follows: 
Recently, the Appeal Panel of the former Administrative Decisions Tribunal summarised the operation of the test in Lombard Farms at [50] and [51] as follows:
The parties to this appeal accepted that the foregoing accurately reflected the statutory test. 
Section 79 focuses attention on the nature of interconnections between group businesses, the nature of the businesses and other relevant matters. The Chief Commissioner must turn his mind to the "carrying on" of the businesses. In order to be relevant to s 79 of the Act, the interconnection must affect group members' businesses in some real or practical sense. Read in context, the expressions "independently of" and "not connected with" are somewhat elastic and depend on the nature and degree of the connections and the type of businesses. To be disentitled from exclusion from a group, there must be a real or meaningful connection, in a commercial sense and not an immaterial, inconsequential or passing connection between the carrying on of the businesses. The reference to a substantial connection in Lombard Farms at [51] is to be read in that context: meaning material and not necessarily large or weighty. 
At first instance, the Tribunal did not consider whether the supply of contract workers by Exell to Civil and Engineering amounted, in a commercially material sense, to a connection between the carrying on of Exell's business on the one hand and the carrying on of the business of either Civil or Engineering on the other hand. The Tribunal instead had regard to the fact that there was no evidence or suggestion of any contrivance, no evidence of control in the management of Exell and the business arrangements between group members were commercial. Accordingly, the Tribunal held that there were ample grounds for the exercise of the discretion (at [43] of the decision at first instance). 
As noted above, the discretion may only be exercised if the Commissioner is first satisfied that any connections that exist do not lead to a conclusion that the businesses are not independent and not connected in a commercial sense. The Tribunal did not consider whether, due to the nature of the undisputed connection between the group members (i.e., the supply of contract workers by Exell to Civil and Engineering) there was a connection between a business carried on by Exell and a business carried on by either Civil or Engineering, so as to lead to a conclusion that the businesses were relevantly connected. 
The discretion in s79 is not a broad discretion that may be exercised on the basis that it is just and reasonable to do so in order to alleviate harsh consequences. The Tribunal, at first instance, erred at law by asking the wrong question. On the undisputed facts, the Tribunal erred in holding that it was open to the Chief Commissioner to exercise the discretion to exclude Exell from the group. The pre-requisites were not met. 
As noted previously, the respondents accepted that the Tribunal erred in ordering the Chief Commissioner to exclude Exell from the groups on the basis that Exell satisfied the preconditions in s 79 of the Act. The Appeal Panel accepts that the concession was properly made. 
The respondents contended that, even if the Tribunal below did err, the "legitimate expectation" and the Ruling required that the same result as that ordered by the Tribunal should follow. The concept of "legitimate expectation" and fairness between taxpayers and the principal of non-discrimination, so the respondents contended, dictate that the same approach should be adopted in relation to taxpayers in like positions. The relevant authorities are discussed at length in Bellinz Pty Ltd v FCT [1998] FCA 615;  (1998) 84 FCR 154. Furthermore, they submitted that the Ruling, which is entitled "Grouping of Professional Practices and Administration Businesses" covered their case. They contended that there was no policy reason why it should be limited to professional practices. 
The concept of "legitimate expectation" was developed in the context of judicial review on the ground of lack of procedural fairness not merits review: see, for example, Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v Teoh [1995] HCA 20;  (1995) 183 CLR 273. As the Appeal Panel understands it, this is not the concept on which the respondents seek to rely in this appeal under the description "legitimate expectation". 
As the submissions developed in oral argument before the Appeal Panel, it emerged that the respondents' contention in relation to "legitimate expectation" related rather to the expectation that there would be fairness between taxpayers and non-discriminatory treatment, in the context of the Ruling and whether it applied in the respondents' case. It was submitted that the Ruling and whether it could be said to cover the respondents' circumstances were not irrelevant considerations in the sense described in Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend Limited [1986] HCA 40;  (1986) 162 CLR 24 per Mason J at 40. The Tribunal and now the Appeal Panel exercising the functions of the Tribunal at first instance, may have regard to the Ruling in reaching a satisfaction as to whether the businesses were independent and not connected. The Ruling indicates, that so far as professional practices using the services of administrative businesses are concerned, where the criteria set out in the Ruling are satisfied, the Commissioner is likely to be satisfied of the relevant matters. The respondents contend, in effect, that the criteria as set out in the Ruling are satisfied and hence consistency of treatment indicates that the requisite satisfaction ought to be reached here. The respondents however do not contend that the Appeal Panel is bound to follow the Ruling and reach the conclusion that the requisite satisfaction is reached. 
The Ruling provides as follows:
The respondents contended that, in substance, they satisfied the prerequisites outlined in the Ruling. First, the business of Civil and Engineering were akin to professional practices, independently run and owned with no substantial connection between them. Second, the administrative services business (Exell) does not derive more than 60% of its income from any one of the businesses akin to professional practice and there was no suggestion of a tax avoidance purpose. 
Thirdly, insofar as there appeared from ASIC records to be a common controlling interest between Engineering and Exell prior to March 2010, that should be ignored, as the Ruling makes plain that dispensation with its terms may be sought.
The appellant contended that the Ruling has no application in the circumstances for the reasons that it is expressly stated to apply to professional practices and at least until March 2010 one of the conditions (as to control of the administrative services business) is not met. Furthermore, the terms of the PT Act are paramount and the Ruling cannot override the statutory prerequisites to the exercise of the discretion. The appellant relied on the following passage from Bellinz at 167: 
Accepting, as we do, that taxpayers are to be treated fairly and that the Ruling is not irrelevant to the task at hand, there is nonetheless no unfair treatment as between taxpayers where the PT Act is applied according to its terms. In order for the discretion in s 79 to be enlivened, the Chief Commissioner (or the Tribunal in the Commissioner's shoes) must be satisfied of independence and lack of connections between group members. Whilst the Ruling identifies some circumstances where the decision-maker may be so satisfied, it does not replace the statutory test. The Ruling itself identifies and expressly states it does not have the force of law and that each decision is made on the merits of the individual case. Quite apart from the fact that the Ruling is not expressed to extend to the respondents' circumstances (particularly in relation to the period before March 2010), the connections we outline below as to the administration and day to day management of Civil and Engineering are such that it could not be said that those businesses were independent of and not connected to the business of Exell. The Ruling cannot change that position. Accordingly, the Tribunal's decision is not supportable on this basis.
The respondents contended that, despite the fact that Exell ought not be excluded from the group, each of Civil and Engineering may and ought to be excluded. Even though this has the same result as excluding Exell from the group (which is accepted to be impermissible), the respondents contend that there is nothing in the PT Act which would prevent this approach being taken. 
The appellant submited that the PT Act does not operate in the manner contended for by the respondents: it would thwart the operation of the Act.
Section 79 is very specific in that it requires the Commissioner to consider whether the business carried on by a member of the group is independent of and not connected with any other member of the group. The Appeal Panel accepts that simply because one business is not carried on independently of the carrying on of another business, it cannot be concluded (on that reason alone) that the latter business is not independent of the former business. Independence within the meaning of s 79 does not appear to be reciprocal. The example cited by the respondents, of a small scale farmer being dependent on a national supermarket chain whilst the national entity is not dependent on the farmer, highlighted why independence might not be necessarily reciprocal. It would not usually be said that, simply because the farmer's business was dependent on the supermarket, the supermarket was not independent of the farmer's business. 
Nevertheless, in addition to the businesses being independent, s 79 of the PT Act requires there to be no connection (in the commercial sense described above) between businesses of group members. It is difficult to conceive of an example where one business is connected to another, yet the latter is not connected to the former.
The appellant pointed to Tasty Chicks Pty Ltd, Commissioner of Stamps v Garrett F Hunter Pty Ltd (1997) 68 SASR 275 and John French Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Pay-Roll Tax (Qld) [1984] 1 Qd R 125 as precluding the result contended for by the respondents. Where one business is dependent on another for its custom (as Exell was on Civil and Engineering) and where the first business is controlled or influenced by other group members it cannot be said that the first business is independent of the other businesses: Tasty Chicks Pty Ltd at [56] and [59]. Furthermore, where decisions about the first business are closely related to and must take into account the needs of the other businesses to continue to attract custom, it cannot be said that the carrying on of the first business is not substantially connected with the carrying on of the other businesses: Garrett F Hunter Pty Ltd at 285-286. Finally, it is not possible for one group member to be excluded from the group unless all members satisfy the requisite test of independence and lack of connection: John French Pty Ltd at 140-141.
The respondents contended that these cases were readily distinguishable because the focus had been on the business reliant on the other group members (akin to Exell's position). The decisions do not consider the perspective of the other group members (i.e., Civil and Engineering). In Tasty Chicks Pty Ltd, the application had been made by the administration company and not by the company operating the principal business. The Court of Appeal noted (at [56]) that the PT Act requires attention to be focussed on the business seeking exclusion and its interrelationship with businesses of other group members. In Garrett F Hunter Pty Ltd and John French Pty Ltd there were express findings to the effect that the owner of one of the businesses had the ability to control or substantially influence the other business. 
Ultimately, it is not necessary for the Appeal Panel to resolve the issue of whether independence and connection are reciprocal in every case. On the facts of this matter, we are not satisfied that the businesses of either Civil or Engineering are carried on independently of and are not connected with the business of Exell. 
A significant proportion of the workforce of both Engineering and Civil came from Exell. Over the period the subject of the dispute, Exell provided between 12% and 26% of the workforce of Civil and Engineering. The majority, if not the whole, of the administration and day to day management staff were provided by Exell. This included provision to Civil of a general manager, engineering manager, construction manager, accounts/payroll officer, clerical assistant and secretary. To Engineering, Exell provided business managers, manager, administration manager, purchasing officer, OH&S coordinator, store person and receptionist. 
Relevantly, the discretion may only be exercised if the carrying on of Civil's business could be said to be independent from and not connected to (in a real or commercial sense) the carrying on of Exell's business. Similarly, it must be able to be said that the carrying on of Engineering's business was independent from and not connected to the carrying on of Exell's business. Here, Civil and Engineering each depended on the employees of Exell to provide their management as well as their day to day administrative staff. They each depended to this extent on the business of Exell. It is difficult to see how without the staff provided by Exell their businesses would have functioned. This is not a case of a passing, infrequent or random connection. It is material and goes to the heart of the carrying on of the businesses of Civil and Engineering. The circumstances here are very similar to those described by Doyle CJ in Garrett F Hunter Pty Ltd at 285 and referred to by the Court of Appeal in Tasty Chicks Pty Ltd. 
Some business decisions of Civil and Engineering, for instance as to whether they will employ permanent staff or take on workers from Exell or another provider (i.e., the source of the labour) are, of their nature, capable of being influenced by decisions made by Exell about its own business (for instance about the number, type, qualifications and training of its workforce). Therefore, some business decisions of Civil and Engineering are connected to the business of Exell. The choices that Exell makes in its own business affect the business choices of Civil and Engineering. This is so irrespective of whether there is actual control by Civil or Engineering over business decisions made by Exell.
Where all, or substantially all, of an entity's management and administration staff are provided by one other entity, it is apt to say that the entities are closely connected. This is the case with both Civil and Engineering whose management and administration staff are all, or substantially all, supplied by Exell. Accordingly, the prerequisites for the exercise of the discretion under s 79 are not satisfied. The Chief Commissioner is not empowered to exclude Civil and Engineering from the group.
On the facts as found, Exell supplied contract workers to its only two customers Civil and Engineering. Each of Civil and Engineering were in a commercial position to influence the business of Exell through continued custom. Exell was in a commercial position to influence business decisions of Civil and Engineering. These business decisions included, most significantly, decisions as to whether Civil and Engineering employed their own staff or continued to obtain staff from Exell. Furthermore, the day to day management and administrative staff of Civil and Engineering were solely or predominately supplied by Exell. In these circumstances, it can be said that the carrying on of the businesses of each of Civil and Engineering was connected to Exell's carrying on of its business. Accordingly, a statutory precondition to exclude a member from a group (absence of connection) is not met. There is therefore no power to exclude Civil or Engineering from the group, pursuant to s 79 of the PT Act.
It follows that the decision of the Tribunal below is not the correct and preferable decision in the circumstances and it cannot be supported on the basis put forward by the respondents. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel is of the view that the appeal should be allowed and the decision of the Tribunal below should be set aside and in its place an order should be made that the decision of the appellant is affirmed. (1) The appeal is allowed.
############# I'm default separator ##########87
MOTOR VEHICLES - breach of contract -leave to appeal - blue slip
The appellant conducts an automotive engineering business and entered into a contract with the respondent (the applicant in the proceedings below) to convert a Ford F250 commercial truck from left to right hand drive. The work was performed and the respondent paid $9500 to the appellant. 
On 17 June 2014, the Tribunal's Consumer and Commercial Division awarded $9500 to the respondent on the basis that the work was not performed in a proper and workmanlike manner. 
The Tribunal published its written reasons for decision on 17 June 2014.
The evidence before the Tribunal below included the sworn oral evidence of the parties and the expert opinion of Mr Gaudie, a mechanical engineering consultant for the respondent. The respondent also relied on quotes from PJs Auto Electrics, Taplins Auto Repairs, Cummins Classic Cars, Mobility Engineering. The respondent also provided a report by J Montano. 
The appellant did not tender any expert report, witness statements or other documentary material before the Tribunal below. 
As stated, a report by Mr J Montano of JC Montano Engineering Consultants Pty Ltd was before the Tribunal (the Montano certificate). Mr Montano certified the roadworthiness of the vehicle as a precursor to registration. The vehicle was registered and a blue slip was issued. The Tribunal recorded that there was no issue that the blue slip was issued but that document was apparently not before the Tribunal.
The Tribunal considered whether the work of converting the applicant's vehicle from left hand to right hand drive was performed in a proper and workmanlike manner.
The Tribunal placed significant weight on the Gaudie report. The Tribunal recorded that the Gaudie report identified a number of issues with the vehicle arising from the work. The issues included poor welding, a defective handbrake assembly, problems with the welding of the steering column, and inadequate fastening (three bolts as opposed to the required four) of the replacement steering box. Exposed electrical cabling was identified as a potential fire hazard and safety issue. It was also noted that the appellant does not hold relevant qualifications and his business is not licensed. Based on the strength of the Gaudie expert opinion the Tribunal arrived at a finding that the appellant "did not undertake the conversion from left hand to right hand drive in a proper and workmanlike manner". 
The relevant findings are contained at page three of the Tribunal's decision:
The Tribunal found that weight could be placed on the Gaudie Report as Mr Gaudie's qualifications and experience were sufficiently set out and therefore his report should be accepted as expert evidence. The respondent's argument that the Montano certification should be preferred over the Gaudie opinion was rejected. The Tribunal reasoned:
The Tribunal accepted that the conversion to left hand drive was carried out defectively. Quotations for the cost of repair were tendered by the respondent. However, the Tribunal member noted that all quotations exceeded the original contract price and were deemed excessive. Rather than accepting the repair quotes as a reasonable reflection of the respondent's loss, the Tribunal ordered that the respondent be given a full refund of the contract price.
Mr Gengiz seeks to appeal the decision of the Tribunal. An appeal may be brought on a question of law but the appellant must seek the panel's leave to appeal "on any other grounds" (see s80(2)(b) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act)). 
When considering applications for leave to appeal from Tribunal decisions the Appeal Panel is required to be satisfied of the matters set in clause 12 of schedule 4 of the Act. 
That clause relevantly provides that the Appeal Panel may grant leave only in limited circumstances because: (a) The decision of the Tribunal was not fair and equitable, or
On 25 August 2014 Wright J President and DA Cowdroy OAM QC, Principal Member, issued directions for the exchange of written submissions or any other material to be relied upon to be filed and served by 8 September 2014. The directions contain the following standard paragraph: 
On 13 October 2014, contrary to directions issued and significantly out of time, the appellant filed submissions and evidence in the form of a blue slip that was not before the Tribunal below. The blue slip was attached to a statement in which the appellant affirmed that he had been able to obtain the documents by a Freedom of Information application from the Department of Roads and Maritime Services. 
The appellant requested a stay of the operation of the orders made on 17June 2014 pending the determination of his appeal. By letter dated 11 August 2014 the appellant was advised that any application for a stay should be brought on 25 August 2014. As the directions of 25 August 2014 make no mention of it, the Appeal Panel assumes that a stay was not granted. 
By Notice of Appeal dated 15 July 2014 the appellant seeks leave to appeal from the Tribunal's decision. The Notice of Appeal form, signed by the appellant's legal representative, did not explicitly raise a question of law. The ground of appeal raised by the appellant in his Notice of Appeal stated:
The section of the Notice of Appeal dealing with potential fresh evidence is left blank. The section headed "evidence is now available that was not reasonably available at the time of hearing" and "when did you first become aware of the evidence" was not filled in by the appellant or his legal representative.
The appellant does seek "leave to appeal" and the two main contentions of the appellant were that the decision was not fair and equitable:
Although not specifically nominated as such by the legal representative for the appellant, we must consider whether questions of law arise on appeal. 
The Appeal Panel in Prendergast v Western Murray Irrigation Ltd [2014] NSWCATAP69 recently considered the requirements for establishing an "error of law" giving rise to an appeal as of right. The Appeal Panel at para 11-12 said
The importance of correctly identifying any question of law was noted by the Appeal Panel in Prendergast. Without expressing exhaustively possible questions of law, the Appeal Panel in Prendergast cited the following at [13]: (1) Whether there has been a failure to provide proper reasons.
In this appeal the appellant was legally represented but the Notice of Appeal did not satisfactorily and with any precision set out any error of law. However, following submissions from the solicitor for the appellant it appears that the error of law, sought to be relied upon were two fold. First, the Tribunal should not have ignored relevant evidence (ie the blue slip) and continued on with the hearing and secondly there was a denial of procedural fairness which we refer to as the "summons issue". 
The appellant deposed that the Tribunal proceeded to hear the matter on 13 March 2014 even though important documents had not been produced pursuant to a summons issued by the appellant. The appellant had paid for the summons but alleges that as he was never sent a copy of the summons, he was therefore prevented from serving it on its intended recipient, the Motor Transport Authority. Ultimately this resulted in the blue slip not being produced. The appellant informed the Tribunal of an "unmet" summons at the first hearing date, but the Tribunal proceeded with the hearing regardless. 
After the hearing could not be completed on 13 March 2014, the application was adjourned part heard to 17 June 2014. It is not in dispute that the appellant made no enquiry to the Registry about the missing summons. 
On 22 August 2014 the respondent filed a Reply to Appeal attaching typed grounds of reply. The Reply states the appeal should be dismissed as the "order by K Rosser reveals due process was followed and E Gengiz was given fair and ample opportunity to present his case." In submissions the respondent stated that the appellant has failed to establish a proper basis for an internal appeal within the meaning of section 80(2)(b) of the Act and that the appellant has failed to establish that a substantial injustice has occurred.
The appellant's submissions were filed as an attachment to his original Notice of Appeal. 
The appellant's main point was that the Tribunal fell into error because it did not take into account the specific content of the blue slip. Because it was not contentious, the parties below submitted and the Tribunal accepted that after blue and pink slips were obtained, the car was registered for some time in 2011. The actual blue slip document was produced by the appellant for the first time on appeal. It was annexed to the affidavit of the appellant dated 10 October 2014 which was filed in the appeal proceedings. The document states that the brakes, steering and suspension were passed by the RTA inspector on its first inspection. Other aspects of the vehicle required re-inspection and only passed after further repairs. As the appellant only performed work on the brake and steering this particular reference in the blue slip assumed some significance. It was submitted that the Tribunal upon properly considering the fact that brakes and steering passed on first inspection, would have arrived at a different finding. The evidence was therefore not properly considered.
The appellant relied on the decision of Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf  [2001] HCA 30;  206 CLR 323 at  [82], per joint judgment of McHugh, Gummow, and Hayne JJs, adopting the principles enunciated in Craig v South Australia [1995] HCA 58;  (1995) 184 CLR 163 at 179:
The appellant submitted that the Tribunal failed to consider the content of the document, thereby falling into an error of law, by identifying the wrong issues, asking itself the wrong question and arriving at an erroneous finding. 
We note that the Member below found that there was no dispute that the blue slip was issued and that the vehicle was registered. The Tribunal concluded that the fact that the blue slip was issued and the vehicle registered did not lead the Tribunal to conclude that the work was not defective.
We have come to the conclusion that the Tribunal, having considered the fact that the blue and pink slip rendered the vehicle roadworthy, precisely directed its mind to the conflicting evidence at the heart of the issues between the parties. 
The appellant was unable to point to any legal argument why the paragraphs in the blue slip referring to brakes and steering should be considered determinative of the issue that all or any of the work performed by the appellant was defective. It was no more than a report of the opinions of its author as to whether the vehicle or parts of the vehicle comply with certain inspection standards at the time of inspection. On presentation of other expert evidence it was open to the Tribunal to find that the conversion was not carried out in a proper and workmanlike manner, despite the blue slip. There was no demonstrable error in the Tribunal directing its enquiries to the mere existence of the blue slip without considering its content. 
Even if the Appeal Panel had considered the Tribunal misdirected itself by "ignoring relevant material" (the contents of the blue slip), to demonstrate an error of law, it is necessary to show that the "relevant material" was determinative of an issue in dispute. The content of the blue slip could not have advanced or elevated its status beyond that which the Tribunal found, namely that in the opinion of the certifier the vehicle upon inspection was compliant with the inspection standards referred to in the blue slip 
We therefore find that the contents of blue slip, now relied upon, do not advance the appellant's case. We are not satisfied that the tribunal has failed to consider relevant material and no error of law has been established.
Mr Gengiz argued that he did not receive the summons from the Registry and that the hearing proceeded without his most probative material being before the Tribunal. 
This ground is similar to the ground above. Had a summons been issued, and had the Tribunal adjourned the hearing, the blue slip would have come to the attention of the Tribunal and it would have considered its contents and not misdirected itself. As we have already found that the blue slip content did not give rise to an error of law, it is not necessary to consider this ground. However, if we have erred on this basis and for completeness we consider the following. 
It is not in dispute that the appellant paid $42 for a summons or that the Registry issued a summons. The Tribunal file contains a letter attaching the summons, addressed to the appellant dated 13 February 2014. 
The appellant maintains that he did not receive a copy of the summons from the Registry. He submits that as a result of the failure by the Registry to send him a copy, a summons for production of a blue and a pink slip was never served. 
A copy of a letter addressed to the appellant and attaching a copy of the summons is on the Tribunal file. Be that as it may, and even if the Appeal Panel accepted that the summons was not sent, which it does not, on the first day of the hearing on 13 March 2014, the issue of the summons was raised by the respondent but no application was made, no adjournment was sought and the hearing proceeded as listed. 
The Tribunal was unable to finalise the hearing in the time allocated and the hearing was further adjourned part heard to 17 June 2014. Again, the appellant made no enquiries to the Registry about the missing summons between paying for it on 11 February 2014 and the day of the final hearing on 17 June 2014. 
In the absence of any application by the appellant for adjournment or otherwise, the Tribunal was entitled to proceed with the hearing without further enquiry concerning the summons. 
The Appeal Panel has already found that the Tribunal did not misdirect itself by arriving at a finding without having regard to the content of the blue slip. The content of the blue slip therefore has no bearing on the outcome of the appeal. It must follow that the Tribunal did not err by proceeding to a hearing in circumstances where the appellant made no application for adjournment and the availability of the blue slip would not have altered the outcome of the hearing. 
For these and the reasons set out above the Appeal Panel is satisfied that there has been no denial of procedural fairness and an error of law has not been established. 
We now turn to any grounds that require leave. The Act's basic requirement is set out in section 80(2), which states that in relation to any decision other than a first instance interlocutory decision, an internal appeal may be made as of right on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel on any other grounds. 
Two grounds relied upon by the appellant require leave:
"The decision of 17 June 2014 failed to consider the respondent's case almost in its entirety." This appears to be a general allegation that the Tribunal arrived at a finding that was against the weight of the evidence.
The evidence was considered by the Tribunal. The Appeal Panel has already decided that the Gaudie report was considered and preferred over the Montano report. The content of the blue slip was not of consequence because the Tribunal was entitled to arrive at a finding that the conversion was poorly executed even if the car was registered for a period of time. The Tribunal accepted reports from both sides into evidence. The reports were analysed in detail and the Tribunal gave detailed reasons for its decision why it preferred the respondent's evidence over that of the appellant. The ground of appeal that the appellant's case was not considered "almost in its entirety" is not established. 
The blue slip was not available at the time of the hearing.
This ground was already identified and dealt with as a question of law above. It has been dismissed. The appellant sought to rely on new material, the blue slip, to demonstrate that that the significant new evidence has arisen that was not available at the hearing. The Act provides that the Appeal Panel may grant leave where there may be a substantial miscarriage of justice because "significant new evidence has arisen being evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing", see cl(12)(1)(c) of the Act.
For reasons set out above the blue slip was always available. The appellant simply failed to make sufficient enquiry concerning its whereabouts. The appellant had no difficulty obtaining the blue slip under a Freedom of Information application and this could have been achieved at any time before the final hearing. 
There is no evidence before the Tribunal that the blue slip could not have been obtained. The Appeal Panel is satisfied that the appellant made no attempts to serve the summons or to otherwise enforce it. He made no enquiry concerning the summons between February and June 2014. The legislation provides for the Appeal Panel to grant leave where there may be a substantial miscarriage of justice because "significant new evidence has arisen that was not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with". The appellant has not led any evidence as to why the blue slip was not reasonably available at the hearing and this ground must also fail. 
We do not accept that the Tribunal fell into error when it arrived at findings without an analysis of the contents of the blue slip. In light of the findings above the decision under appeal cannot be said to be against the weight of the evidence.
The Tribunal did take into account the fact that a report of Montaro had been issued and this led to the issue of a blue slip and registration. As was conceded by the appellant at the appeal hearing, the mere issue of a registration certificate, is not of itself conclusive or probative of the issue of whether the work performed by the appellant was defective or constituted a breach of contract. 
Similarly the appellant did not seek to demonstrate that the Gaudie report was unsafe or unsound. Accordingly the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice. 
Finally in the opinion of the Appeal Panel there was no denial of procedural fairness or any other question of law. In addition, as no grounds of appeal by leave have been established by reason of cl 12(1), no appeal to the Appeal Panel may be brought and the appeal must be dismissed 
Section 60(1) of the NCAT Act provides that each party to proceedings in the Tribunal is to pay its own costs. However, pursuant to s 60(2), the Tribunal may award costs in proceedings before it 'only if it is satisfied that there are special circumstances warranting an award of costs'. Section 60(3) then describes those occasions justifying an order for costs.
The respondent submitted the factors giving rise to an order for costs as provided by s 60(2) existed. The respondent pointed to the lack of evidence presented to rebut the Gaudie report and the failure of the appellant to lead evidence to explain why the blue slip, the document at the heart of the appeal, was not reasonably available at the hearing. The appellant's case on appeal was relatively uncomplicated. The respondent submitted it has incurred costs in preparing the matter for hearing and should be entitled to reimbursement.
We do not consider that the arguments led by the respondent point to the existence of special circumstances. In the absence of such a finding we decline to make an order for costs and instead the ordinary order should be made that each party bear its own costs of the appeal.
############# I'm default separator ##########88
RETAIL LEASES -valid exercise of option to renew by lessee - lock-out oflessee following notice to quit after expiry of originallease - held option hadbeen renounced by lessee by conduct prior to lock-out - therefore notice to quiteffective - Appeal - whetherTribunal erred in law -standard to be applied inrelation to a finding of renunciation - Tribunal did not misapply standard tofacts- communication on which the Tribunal primarily relied for its finding wasconsidered in context - lock-out premature by one day- whether Tribunal failedproperly to quantify appellant's loss of stock in its damages award against therespondent - no error -appeal dismissed.
This is an appeal against a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of this Tribunal made under the Retail Leases Act 1994 (RLA): Coslo Foods Corp Pty Ltd v Ali Bardouh and Soumaya Bardouh [2014] NSWCATCD 2 (28 February 2014).
The Tribunal below dealt with two applications for relief. In the first (no 125137) (a combined retail tenancy claim and unconscionable conduct claim) the former lessee of a retail shop (Coslo) sought substantial damages ($350,000) for wrongful termination of the lease by the assignees of the original lessor (the Bardouhs), and sought a number of other orders. In the second (no 135021) (a retail tenancy claim) the assignees (the Bardouhs) sought damages for rental arrears and for various make good items. 
The Bardouhs had on 28 March 2012 purchased at auction the freehold of land that contained the premises the subject of a lease to Coslo due to expire on 20 April 2012. The lease was renewable for a further term of three years. The Tribunal found that Coslo had effectively exercised that option on the first permitted date for that purpose, 19 October 2011. The sale was made subject to existing tenancies, and was completed on 14 June 2012. As at 14 June 2012, the new option lease had not been finalised. Coslo remained in occupation. The Bardouhs gave Coslo one month's notice to quit on 3 July 2014. The Bardouhs locked Coslo out overnight on 2/3 August 2014, one day short of the notice period. 
The critical issue in the case was whether Bardouhs' conduct was in breach of the lessee's rights as an option-holder who taken up the option for renewal. The Bardouhs submitted that Coslo had by its conduct renounced the option, and therefore was at the date of the notice to quit merely a tenant holding over under the expired lease on a month to month basis. Coslo submitted that it had not forgone the benefit of the option. It submitted that it was still engaged in negotiations with the Bardouhs when the lock-out occurred over the terms of the new lease that needed to be settled afresh, most importantly, the amount of rent for the new term. 
The Tribunal upheld the submission of the Bardouhs' and found that by its conduct Coslo had renounced the option. 
This ruling is the primary subject of the appeal. 
It is of assistance to provide an extended account of the background to this dispute. The narrative that follows is drawn from parts of the Tribunal's reasons and a review of the first instance file, and the material received into evidence as exhibits. The hearing took four days. (There is no transcript available.)
The shop comprised two frontages, located at 243-245 Northumberland Street, Liverpool. As at 2012 it had been the site of a mixed business for 17 years, trading in Indian groceries, foods and spices, and Indian videos. The Varma family had conducted the business since about the year 2000 under the business name, 'Vinayak'. Since at least 2003, the owners of the freehold had been Mr A Varma and his two sons. Coslo had one shareholder and sole director, Mr Varma's wife, Mrs S Varma. The registered proprietors had mortgaged the freehold in 2003 to secure a loan.
At para [8] of its reasons the Tribunal said, alluding to the family connection between the parties to the lease, 'it seems clear that the lessee, no doubt with the acquiescence of the lessor rarely if ever actually paid the precise amount of rent payable'. It also noted that the rent reviews did not occur, and having regard to the accounts placed in evidence 'it is possible on occasion rent was paid by a family member instead of Coslo'. 
By 2011 the registered proprietors were in financial difficulty. On 4 August 2011 The mortgagees took action against them, and obtained judgment for possession of the land. Coslo exercised its option to renew the lease, as noted earlier, on 19 October 2011. On 24 January 2012 the mortgagees obtained an order for possession of the land. On 19 February 2012 the mortgagees served a section 63 notice on the registered proprietors, giving rise to the sale by auction on 28 March 2012 to which we referred above. 
The mortgagees locked Coslo out on Thursday 5 April 2012 (just before the Easter weekend). Coslo applied to the Supreme Court for relief against forfeiture, resulting in interim orders (12 April 2012) allowing them to remain in occupation subject to payment of rent as due and other terms. Final orders to similar effect were made by consent on 6 June 2012. As noted above, the sale to the Bardouhs was completed on 14 June 2012. 
On 4 May 2012 the solicitors for the mortgagees had written to the solicitors for the Bardouhs stating that they had 'not at this stage prepared a lease for the option period given the default of Coslo under the terms of the unregistered lease.' The reference to default is to the alleged non-payments of rent that founded the lock out of Thursday 5 April. The Bardouhs began to negotiate with Coslo over the new lease from about 14 May 2012. 
Coslo's case, in essence, was that it had been was an option-holder who had given proper notice of exercise of the option, and was entitled to call upon the new registered proprietors for a new lease at an agreed rental, or market rental determined in accordance with the lease or pursuant to s 31 of the RLA. Section 31 provides:
Coslo referred in its submissions at first instance (written submissions, 23 August 2013) to the speed with which the Bardouhs had installed a new tenant after the lockout (lockout 2/3 August, new tenant 13 August). It pressed the case that the Bardouhs had a tenant in the wings ready to take over, and were not serious about any negotiations to renew the lease. 
The Tribunal held that the notice purporting to exercise the option on which Coslo relied was an effective one and would, ordinarily, have entitled them to a renewal on the basis set out in the lease. However, it referred to the subsequent negotiations between the parties, and concluded that, by its conduct, Coslo had renounced the option. It held at [45] that 'communications emanating from Coslo especially the email of 16 June [2012] evince an intention to be no longer bound by any obligations arising from the exercise of the option and communications from Bardouh indicate an acceptance of that repudiation'.
Coslo did not seek to return to the premises after the lock out. The Tribunal found that the Varmas relocated the business to an address about 200m away, 25-27 Scott Street, Liverpool: see further [52] ff. 
The Tribunal dismissed Coslo's primary claim, but did make an order against the Bardouhs to pay Coslo $10,000 in damages in respect of tenants' fixtures retained by the Bardouhs: see [59]. It noted in that regard that Coslo had been deprived of the opportunity to remove its property during 3 August 2012, as the Bardouhs effected entry into the premises, and thereby committed an unlawful trespass, by securing the property overnight on 2/3 August which was earlier than the time specified by the notice of 3 July 2012. In response to other claims by Coslo, the Tribunal found no evidence of unconscionable conduct or of deceptive and misleading conduct by the Bardouhs. In relation to the Bardouhs' application the Tribunal rejected the element of the claim relating to arrears of rent, and granted its make good claim in two aspects, awarding it the cost of removing rubbish from the premises ($4313), and the cost of replacing a tile ($100), total $4413. There was no order for costs.
Coslo now appeals. The appeal is governed by the provisions of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013, primarily s 80(2). 
The right to appeal is confined to 'any question of law'. The Appeal Panel has a discretion to permit the appeal to extend to 'any other ground' (in effect, questions of fact, and perhaps mixed questions of fact and law). That discretion is the subject of further direction in the case of appeals from the CCD, as here: see sched 4, cl 12. The Appeal Panel must be satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a 'substantial miscarriage of justice' on one or more of the bases set out in that provision. 
The notice of appeal was lodged on 31 March 2014. It was prepared by Mr A Varma, on behalf of Coslo. It sought to have the Tribunal's decision set aside as it affected Coslo, and orders substituted in terms of those sought in the original proceedings by Coslo. The grounds set out in the notice of appeal were wide-ranging, and did not identify with any clarity specific questions of law. The notice attached numerous documents, seen as refuting the Tribunal's key findings of fact, especially in relation to the question of the continued operation of the option. 
The notice included an application for an extension of appeal to 'other grounds' and set out matters seen as relevant to the criteria found in the special provision affecting CCD appeals. The respondents, the Bardouhs, filed their notice in reply on 17 April 2014. Coslo filed on 11 August 2014 a revised bundle of documents (page nos 1-71). 
At the commencement of the hearing there was an application from Mr Southwick for the Bardouhs to have the proceedings struck out for non-compliance with directions, supported by submissions filed 10 October 2014. Mr Southwick's application referred to the delays caused by Mr Varma in complying with the directions timetable, and the lack of clarity of the notice of appeal, and its oppressiveness. In reply Coslo said that it had sought and been granted extensions to the timetable, while it waited for an application to the Tribunal for the transcript of the four-day hearing to be provided (not granted), and sought legal aid for legal representation. 
By the day of the hearing, Coslo did have the services of a legal representative, Mr M Mandoh, barrister. (Coslo had been represented at first instance by Mr S Reuben, barrister. The Bardouhs' representative, Mr Southwick, had appeared for them below.) 
In declining to grant the respondents' application, the Appeal Panel noted that Coslo was now legally represented, and noted that written submissions handed up at the hearing prepared by Mr Mandoh, in effect confined the scope of the appeal to two questions, cast as questions of law: (a) whether in finding that the option had been renounced the Tribunal erred in law; and (b) whether the Tribunal erred in law in its approach to the quantification of the loss suffered by Coslo as a result of the premature lock-out.
While Mr Southwick had had no opportunity to prepare any written submissions directly replying to Mr Mandoh's submissions, he agreed to proceed to have the appeal heard without an adjournment for that purpose. 
We will deal first with the second of the two points made in the submissions in relation to Tribunal's reasoning in support of its finding that the option was renounced. 
Coslo submitted that there is an apparent inconsistency in the findings of the Tribunal that itself points to an error of law. The whole of para [45] is expressed as follows:
The submission is that it is logically inconsistent and erroneous for the Tribunal to have found that the holding over provisions of the lease were applicable, while at the same time finding that the option lease had validly arisen in the interim. 
In our view, this is a misreading of the Tribunal's reasoning. The Tribunal is saying that as at 28 June 2012 the legal position in its view was that the option had been renounced (or repudiated) by conduct, with the result that the tenant was in occupation of the premises on a month to month basis. If the Tribunal's original premise is correct (option renounced), then this is clearly the case. There had been none of the additional steps taken to finalise a new option lease by the date from which the new term would have commenced, 20 April 2012, so matters remained in flux pending that step. The Tribunal's analysis is no more than the orthodox one, if its original premise is correct. We now turn to the attack on the original premise.
Clearly it is unusual and serious for a tribunal to hold that a validly-given notice of an option has been renounced by the giver of the notice by reason of subsequent conduct. The following observations of Macready AssJ in Gumland v Duffy [2006] NSWSC 10 are, we consider, apposite:
In a leading case on repudiation in the Australian contract law, Koompahtoo Local Aboriginal Land Council v Sanpine Pty Ltd [2007] HCA 61;  (2007) 233 CLR 115 at  [44] Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Heydon and Crennan JJ said (footnotes omitted, emphasis added):
Therefore, if renunciation is asserted, the Tribunal must undertake an objective appraisal of the conduct of the party said to have renounced by reference to the likely judgment of a reasonable person in the situation of the other party. To similar effect, Lotz v Coco Chocolates Pty Ltd [2013] NSWADTAP 43 at  [67] (Chesterman DP presiding), a case arising the Tribunal's retail leases jurisdiction, referring in turn to Shevill at 625-6 per Gibbs CJ. For an example of the application of the test to a lease dispute, there a case where the lessor was found to have engaged in conduct that amounted to renunciation of its obligations under the lease, see Caldwell v Hill [2000] NSWCA 239 esp per Mason P at [34] ff.
Coslo's submission is that the Tribunal arrived at an erroneous finding that was fundamental to its ultimate ruling in the case; and contended that the mistake was such that it constituted an error of law going to jurisdiction of the kind to which cases such as Craig v South Australia [1995] HCA 58;  (1995) 184 CLR 163 at 179; Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30;  (2001) 206 CLR 323 at  [82]; and Kirk v Industrial Relations Commission of NSW [2010] HCA 1;  (2010) 239 CLR 531 at  [60]- [70]. 
The Appeal Panel is exercising its statutory jurisdiction to hear an appeal on a question of law. It is not called on to address the question of the limits on the judicial review function of superior courts to which the case-law on jurisdictional error primarily speaks. 
The Appeal Panel accepts, as did its predecessor, that a finding of fact on a critical matter may miscarry to such a degree that an error of law arises: see, generally in the retail leases context, Golden Harvest (Australia) Pty Ltd v Paing Pty Ltd & Ors (RLD)  [2002] NSWADTAP 40. As noted more recently in Soliman v Roads and Maritime Services (GD)  [2012] NSWADTAP 11 at  [20]:
The debate therefore is always whether there has been a miscarriage of such a degree that the ordinary protection of findings of fact from appeal on the ground of question of law is lost. 
Coslo's submissions focus on the communication to which weight is given by the Tribunal - the email of 16 June 2012. Coslo submits that a careful examination of the text of the communication and its context reveals that it did not have the significance attached to it by the Tribunal, and that Tribunal misconstrued the communication. 
The Bardouhs' reply is that the finding was an available finding of fact having regard to the evidence as a whole, and no error of law arises. Relevant to this submission is the well known statement that '[t]he reasons for the decision under review are not to be construed minutely and finely with an eye keenly attuned to the perception of error': Collector of Customs v Pozzolanic [1993] FCA 456;  (1993) 43 FCR 280 at 287, cited with approval by Brennan CJ, Toohey, McHugh and Gummow JJ in Minister for Immigration & Ethnic Affairs v Wu Shan Liang [1996] HCA 6;  (1996) 185 CLR 259 at  [30].
The 2009 lease provided that any new lease between the parties resulting from exercise of the option was to have a 'new rent' (cl 4.6.1), and stated:
In its reasons the Tribunal set out the material elements of cl 5 (see para [6]). It will be seen that Method 3 specifies that the rent is to be 'current market rent', and sets out a number of criteria, and provides at cl 5.15 for a decision to be made by a valuer appointed under cl 5.16 if the parties do not agree on the amount of the new rent 30 days before the rent review date. This clause covers much of the ground of s 31 of the RLA. In any event s 31 applies to the extent that any gaps exist in the lease provision.
In a stable lease relationship, the question of the rent for the next term and whether the issue needed to be referred for independent valuation would, very likely, have been resolved in the period prior to commencement date of the new lease (here, 20 April 2012). But during that period the mortgagees in possession were moving to sell the freehold, were in dispute with Coslo over unpaid rent, had effected a lock-out soon after the sale, and Supreme Court proceedings for relief against forfeiture had ensued. Clearly by the time of completion of the sale (14 June 2012), the Bardouhs as the new owners would have been keen to finalise the lease for the next term, and in that regard have settled the amount of the rent. 
Having found at [34] that 'as at April 2012, Coslo had a legally enforceable right to a three year lease of the premises in accordance with the terms of the lease which expired on 19 April 2012 at a market rent determined in accordance with that lease or in accordance with s 31 of the Retail Leases Act' the Tribunal stated at [35]: 'The question which then arises is whether Coslo's position changed between 20 April 2012 and 3 August 2012'. 
The Tribunal referred from [36]-[40] to the following communications: solicitors for the mortgagee in possession to Coslo, 30 March 2012; further letter from the solicitors, 20 April 2012; reply from Coslo's solicitor, 27 April 2012; and solicitors' further letter, 2 May 2012. These communications were all concerned with the question of shortfalls in payment of rent, and bringing rent up to date. There is no express reference in this group of communications to the exercise of the option to renew, let alone the giving of any active consideration to the terms that needed to be settled afresh in the option lease. 
As noted at [7] of our reasons, above, the mortgagees' solicitors 
During May and the early part of June, it would seem from the reasons and the evidence on file that Mr Varma (for Coslo) and Mr Bardouh dealt directly with each other. The Tribunal refers, for example, without criticism, at [15] of its reasons to a conversation between Mr Varma and Mr Bardouh as recorded in Mr Varma's affidavit, in which both refer to the option to renew. Mr Bardouh is quoted as being prepared to keep Coslo as the tenant subject to 'rent to market'. Mr Bardouh said he would get his real estate agent to deal with him. 
The Tribunal refers at [40] to the mortgagees' solicitors' letter of 2 May 2012 (see above, [44]), and then continues at [41]:
It does not spell out the content of these emails. These are: (1) email dated 12 June to Mr Varna from Mr Bardouh indicating that he will come tomorrow to discuss the new lease and 'progress the market review'; (2) an email dated 14 June to Mr Varma from Mr Bardouh stating that Mr Bardouh had come to see him yesterday about the new lease and market review but he was not in, and would now come by today at 3pm to discuss; (3) a reply from Mr Varma asking can we meet tomorrow, 15th; and then (4) a further email after that meeting from Mr Bardouh - 'As discussed in our meeting this afternoon and on previous occasions in the last week, I am awaiting for your email. Please send before 5pm today as we need this new lease reflecting market rate finalized by Monday 18/6/12. Please include examples of rental properties.' (See Ex 3 before the Tribunal, being in turn Ex AB-1 to the affidavit of Mr Bardouh sworn 11 April 2013 at 10-12.)
The Tribunal then sets out the full text of the exchange of emails of 16 June 2012. They begin with the reply email sought by Mr Bardouh in communication (4) referred to above. Mr Varma starts with the assertion that the 'current market rental has declined'. Next he states: 'We propose that the Lease be reinstated as per the old Lease on Auction sale contract or alternatively, new lease with following is proposed.' Read in context the reference to the old lease could reasonably be construed as a reference to its rental amount and its other features. The 'new lease' proposed as an alternative contained a lower rent ($45,000 'GST and outgoings inclusive') a total considerably lower than the previous lease's original rent amount ($50,000 exclusive of GST and outgoings, which had not been adjusted during the life of the lease. 
The Tribunal then sets out Mr Bardouh's reply, sent 3 hours' later on 16 June 2012. It commences as follows: 'I will employ real estate agents and solicitors to handle this starting early next week. Coslo Pty Limited is on a monthly lease for now, I withdraw my offer to negotiate a new lease with you and or your company. Please note that from the outset I have suggested to employ an independent valuation expert to determine the market value and that you have refused this offer.'
Despite the above reply we note that Mr Bardouh did as late as 28 June 2012 through his agent advise Coslo by letter that he was prepared to offer a new lease. That letter asserted that Coslo was a tenant holding over on a month to month basis, an assertion accepted as accurate by the Tribunal given the events of 16 June 2012. The letter advised that the rent was to be substantially increased (to $78,000 pa). The Tribunal noted elsewhere in its reasons that the amount it obtained from the new tenant that replaced Coslo was just below that figure, indicating in its mind that it was a realistic figure. 
The letter of 28 June 2012 was followed on 3 July 2012 by a formal notice from the agent requiring Coslo to vacate the premises a month later on 3 August 2012, and requiring them to make good the premises in ways outlined in the letter of 28 June 2012. 
In support of its submission that the Tribunal misconstrued Mr Varma's email of 16 June 2012 to such an extent that it erred in law, Coslo drew attention to its heading, 'without prejudice'. It was contended that this was strong evidence for the view that the email was no more than part of a usual negotiating exercise over the rent to be set under the option lease. In our view, the heading 'without prejudice' is merely an ingredient to be considered in forming a judgment as to the nature of the relationship between the parties. (Privilege in the technical sense was formally waived: reasons, [35].)
It is plain that at this point the parties were a long way apart in relation to a the new rent. Equally, it is plain from the reply email from Mr Bardouh that he wished to end the relationship. Mr Bardouh stated that he was not prepared to accept the Varma proposal, and he asks them to leave the premises and refers to other matters of concern to him (make good, removal of debris and the like). Importantly, Mr Bardouh referred to Mr Varma's failure to agree to engage an independent valuer to address the issue. 
The final conclusion of the Tribunal ('the communications emanating from Coslo especially the email of 16 June evince an intention to be no longer bound by any obligations arising from the exercise of the option and communications from Bardouh indicate an acceptance of that repudiation') must be seen in the wider context of the case, as revealed by other parts of the reasons and by reference to the material that was placed before the Tribunal. 
It is clear that the Varma family was in financial difficulty by mid-2011 in keeping up the mortgage payments. The Tribunal expressed understandable doubt as to whether an arms-length relationship had existed as between Coslo (sole director, Mrs Varma) and the registered proprietors, her husband and their two sons, as to timely payment of rent. Plainly an arms-length purchaser (as the Bardouhs were) from a mortgagee in possession was likely to insist on orthodox payment practices. Coslo faced the likelihood that, if it was to continue in business at these premises, they would be faced with a demand for rent under any renewed lease at the market rate, as occurred.
Moreover, there had been an application to ASIC for deregistration of Coslo on 18 June 2012, later withdrawn. The Tribunal spoke at [46] of this conduct providing 'powerful evidence that Coslo, a company making significant losses, had no real desire to continue in business on the site.' It saw this view as reinforced by the notice and then the sign it erected directing business elsewhere (4 August, and later in August, respectively): see reasons, [46], [53]-[55]. In our view, all of these matters were part of the commercial context against which the Tribunal made its assessment. 
The Tribunal expressed itself in a curt way. But it is clear, we consider, that it had reached the view that Mr Varma could not seen to be dealing genuinely with the new lessor, especially in relation to the need to resolve quickly the key issue of rent, and in his failure to accede promptly to the request for an independent valuer. By this conduct, an objective observer could reasonably conclude that he had renounced the option. 
In our view the Tribunal could not be said to have so misconstrued the email exchange of 16 June 2012, or the surrounding circumstances, to give rise to an error of law, either in the sense of misapplying the standard laid down in Koomphatoo to the facts, or by failing to adhere to the general standards to which we have referred earlier in these reasons in relation to the adequacy of reasons for critical findings of fact. 
Coslo's submission is that the Tribunal erred in failing to make any award for its loss of stock. The difficulty with this submission is that the Tribunal made a factual finding at [58] that there was no stock left at the premises as at 3 August 2012, accepting the evidence on this point given by Mr Bardouh. We note that while Coslo had been locked out a day too soon, it did have the period that commenced with the notice of quit to take action in relation to its stock. 
Coslo submitted that because of the Bardouhs' misconduct in locking it out prematurely, the Tribunal should have drawn an inference against the Bardouhs and favourable to Coslo in respect of the state of the premises and the continued presence of stock, said to be 'approximately 10 tonnes, and valued at approximately $200,000.' 
We do not see the dicta of Handley JA in Tyco v Optus Networks [2004] NSWCA 333 at  [96] as affecting our conclusion. His Honour is making no more than a usual observation about the drawing of inferences against a party whose actions have made an accurate determination problematic. The Bardouhs' actions resulted in one day being cut from the usual notice period (and we accept that there was a further grace period allowed under the lease for removal of equipment, and an offer of a convenient day was made in that regard by the Bardouhs' solicitor). The Bardouhs' conduct did not render the determination problematic in any significant way.
It is apparent from reading the reasons as a whole that the Tribunal formed a poor impression of Mr Varma as a witness, and found more credible Mr Bardouh's evidence on disputed points. 
No question of law arises. 
############# I'm default separator ##########89
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - meaning of use ofpremises for unlawful purposes within s 91(1)(b) of the Residential TenanciesAct 2010 - whether presence or storage of items at premises enough - divergentTribunal decisions in Marshall and Robertson - findings notopen on the evidence- impact of policy about ineligibility for social housing.
In this appeal, social housing premises in Eastlakes, Sydney had some connection with criminal offences and other alleged unlawful activity committed by the tenant (the Tenant). 
As a consequence, the tenancy agreement for the premises was terminated by the Tribunal at first instance.
The Tenant now appeals against that decision on grounds that include both questions of law and other aspects of the merits of the decision. Leave to appeal is sought in relation to these other aspects.
The questions that arise include whether: (1) the connection between the premises and the offences, and other alleged activity of the Tenant, constituted use of the premises for an unlawful purpose within the meaning of s 91(1)(b) of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2010 (the RTA);
The residential premises consist of a 3 bedroom unit in a multi-storey block of units in Eastlakes, Sydney. The Respondent to the appeal is the landlord (the Landlord).
The Tenant is a 34 year old woman. She has three children aged 15, 11 and 2. She has lived at the premises pursuant to a residential tenancy agreement dated 6 April 2005.
On 17 July 2013, the NSW Police executed a search warrant at the premises. Various items were seized by the police.
Following the search the Tenant was arrested and charged with the following two offences:
Whilst these charges did not refer to the residential premises, the material before the Tribunal made it plain that the possession the subject of these charges was possession resulting from the presence of these items at the residential premises when the search warrant was executed.
As to the cash, the amount of $1,110 was located in the Tenant's handbag. The balance of $13,450 was located in a locked wardrobe in the Tenant's bedroom. The money found in the Tenant's handbag was not relied upon by the Tribunal in making the termination order. On appeal, the Landlord did not suggest that such cash was part of the case for termination.
The terms of these two offences were as follows:
As to the identification information, the Tenant was not charged with any other related offence such as: (1) dealing with identification information, which applies to making or using such information: s 192J and s 192I of the Crimes Act, or
At the time of her arrest, the Tenant's then 14 year old child resided with her at the unit. Also present at the time of the execution of the search warrant, according to the Facts Sheet in the criminal proceedings, was a "male associate" seated in the kitchen/dining area. The situation concerning the Tenant's two other children is unclear. The Tribunal referred to the Tenant's children as residing with her in the premises at the time of her arrest [54]. However, the Facts Sheet refers to only one of the children residing at the premises - the other two children being in the custody of the Department of Community Services. The Tenant's written submissions at first instance also refer to two of the children (the two younger children) being in the care of the Department of Community Services.
Following her arrest, the Tenant was held on remand. Subsequently, she pleaded guilty to the above offences at a hearing on 22 January 2014. She received a nine month custodial sentence with a non-parole period of six months.
At the time of the hearing at first instance, the Tenant remained in custody. Because of other offences she is not due to be released until about February 2015.
In addition to facts already referred to, the material before the Tribunal including property seizure forms, photographs of credit cards seized, police statements and oral evidence from Detective Senior Constable Lavender established that: (1) the cash in the wardrobe in the Tenant's bedroom was found after the wardrobe was unlocked by the Tenant, at the request of the police, with a set of keys she retrieved,
The Tenant resisted the making of a termination order on the grounds that: (1) use of the premises in the illegal activity needed to be more significant than the mere presence, or even storage, of these items at the premises. There needed to be a substantial and direct connection between the illegal activity and the premises. 
In relation to the cash in the wardrobe, the Tribunal found that the employment of a locked cupboard for secreting stolen cash created a sufficient nexus between the use of the premises and an illegal purpose [39]. This misstated the nature of the cash, which was not stolen. It was suspected of being proceeds of crime. 
In relation to the identification material, the Tribunal made findings that: (1) documents spread across the bed indicated a system of sorting and review on the Tenant's bed [40]-[41],
In relation to the skimmer, the Tribunal found that it was being used at the premises with "computer equipment", which, must have been a reference to the electrical leads [50] and [21], and [43].
The Tribunal adopted Macquarie Dictionary definitions of "use" meaning "to employ for some purpose" or to "act or behave towards, or treat in some manner" [38]. It rejected a submission by the Tenant that a "substantial connection" between use and the illegal activity was required [25].
The Tribunal found that the required use of the premises existed because:
However, having said that, the Tribunal also said:
The approach the Tribunal was there agreeing with was that taken in New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation v Robertson [2008] NSWCTTT 1197. 
There is nothing in the reasons to indicate that in assessing the unlawful use of the premises for the remainder of the operation of s 91(1) of the RTA, including the exercise of the discretion to terminate, the Tribunal had regard only to this more passive use of storage of these items on the premises. On the contrary, the Tribunal's conclusions in paragraph 61, which referred to the "unlawful use of the stolen goods and equipment found" and distinguished the facts from those in Ozen and Marshall, indicate otherwise.
The Tribunal at first instance did not make an explicit finding that the requisite use was sufficient to justify termination. However, in deciding against the Tenant on grounds that referred to the serious nature of the illegal use and purpose [58], and that the unlawful purpose was not "minor or petty" [60], it appears implicit that it did so.
In exercising the discretion to order termination, the Tribunal took account of two factors in favour of the Tenant, namely that the premises had been leased to her for a continuous period of almost nine years in which there was no history of any previous unlawful use, and that the Tenant was residing in the premises with her children at the time of her arrest resulting in their relocation during her imprisonment [54].
The Tribunal referred to the Tenant's submission about becoming ineligible for social housing. It took the view that this involved "merely speculating" about the Tenant's possible options [56]. In so finding, the Tribunal pointed out that the details of the policy were not in evidence and there was no evidence of any relevant pre-determination by the Landlord as to what would occur in the event of termination [56]. 
Taking into account what it regarded as the serious nature of the illegal use and purpose and the lack of any additional factors favouring a refusal of termination, the Tribunal found that the factors favouring the Tenant were not of sufficient weight to warrant refusal of an order for termination [57].
The Tenant appealed on grounds that raised the following questions of law:
The matter in (b) was treated by both parties as raising a "no evidence" point and, hence, raising a question of law.
In addition, the Tenant sought leave to appeal on other grounds including that the decision was against the weight of the evidence, was not fair and equitable and significant new evidence had arisen that was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing.
The Tenant's principal arguments on appeal were: (1) merely having or, indeed, storing stolen goods or property reasonably suspected to be proceeds of crime on the premises is not sufficient to constitute use of the premises for an unlawful purpose or is not sufficiently serious to justify termination. In this respect, it is not sufficient that there be a passing connection with the premises, (2) there was no evidence to support the findings as to use of the premises for review and sorting of the identification documents, and to do so in order to steal identities and defraud persons, (3) there was no evidence to support the findings concerning the use of the skimmer, (4) the Tribunal should have taken account of the application of the Landlord's policy about ineligibility for social housing and its likely impact on the Tenant, but failed to do so.
We were referred to a number of authorities bearing upon the meaning and application of the relevant words in s 91(1)(b) of the RTA, namely: R v Rintel (1990) 3 WAR 527; Southern Junction Youth Services Inc v Cottle [1996] SARTT 10 (22 April 1996); NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Marshall (Tenancy) [2007] NSWCTTT 575 (4 October 2007); Director of Housing v TP (Residential Tenancies)  [2008] VCAT 1275 (24 June 2008); NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Robertson (Tenancy)  [2008] NSWCTTT 1197 (5 August 2008); Director of Housing v TK (Residential Tenancies)  [2010] VCAT 1839 (16 November 2010); NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Baldwin (Social Housing)  [2013] NSWCTTT 281 (19 June 2013); NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Nihangun Ozen (19 March 2014); NSW Land and Housing Corporation v Davis (13 October 2014). 
We have also had regard to the English decisions in S Schneiders and Sons Ltd v Abrahams,  [1925] 1 KB 301 and Abrahams v Wilson [1971] 2 WLR 923 both of which are referred to in Director of Housing v TK.
There are no authorities binding upon the Appeal Panel.
The meaning of "use" is, in our view, the ordinary meaning of "employ for some purpose", as was submitted by the Landlord (see also Rintel at 529.45) or "to avail oneself of; apply to one's own purposes": see Macquarie Dictionary. This meaning accords with the familiar concept of use of a property for residential purposes to which use for an unlawful purpose is to be contrasted. 
What will satisfy the requirement of use for an unlawful purpose will depend on the circumstances of each case. Matters of degree may be involved. 
However, there is nothing in the words, context or purpose of the statute that leads to a construction that precludes mere presence or storage at the premises of stolen items, or items reasonably suspected of being the proceeds of crime, or prohibited substances, from amounting to use of the premises for an unlawful purpose.
To the extent that the contrary view was taken in Marshall and Ozen, we disagree with that view and agree with the view of the Tribunal in Robertson on this point.
The language used is broad and unqualified. The section does not provide, for example, that the use is to be: (1) for the dominant purpose of the unlawful activity,
The use for an unlawful purpose need not displace use of the premises for residential purposes. The uses can co-exist.
As Malcolm CJ said in Rintel (at page 530.3), use for residential purposes involves use for a variety of purposes, including shelter, eating, sleeping, storage of goods, recreation and even taking a bath.
In this company, keeping stolen goods, or goods suspected to be proceeds of crimes, even if openly on display (as some goods were in Marshall) is an additional, but unlawful use. As is also, very clearly, using the premises for the operation of an illegal brothel.
On the other hand, the connection between the premises and the unlawful purpose may be so limited that it is not sensible to say that the premises were employed, or availed of, for an unlawful purpose.
An example can be taken from the facts of this case. The Tenant's possession of cash in the sum of $1,100 in her handbag found at the premises, suspected of being proceeds of crime, had some connection with the premises. However, on these facts alone, the premises, as distinct from the handbag, were not employed or availed of for an unlawful purpose.
On the other hand, had it been established that the cash in her handbag was at the premises because it was about to be placed in a safe installed at the premises then, in our view, the required use would exist.
In some cases it may be said that the required use of the residential premises does not exist because the premises are merely the scene of the crime. In Schneiders case, Bankes LJ (at page 307.3) gave the example of an assault on someone who happened to be on the premises. He doubted that this would constitute use of the premises for an illegal purpose.
We share such doubt. On the other hand, if the victim of the assault had been lured to the premises so that the assault could be carried out there, a different answer may well be given.
There is no reason why a passing connection with the premises could never suffice. For example, if stolen goods were harboured at the premises for five minutes on their way to another destination this would, in our view, still be use of the premises for an unlawful purpose.
In the operation of s 91(1)(b), there is then a separate question whether such use is sufficient to justify termination. Yet further, there is the question whether to make the termination order. In that regard, the Tribunal may consider the nature of the unlawful use: s 91(2)(a).
This structure of the section supports an extensive operation for the first part of s 91(1)(b). The first part is broad, but whether it leads to termination is dependent upon additional controls.
For the above reasons, in our view the Tribunal in Marshall erred in concluding: (1) It would seem likely that as the words, "in connection with" are absent from section 23(1)(a), a substantial connection between the illegal purpose and the use, in a common sense way, is required when interpreting section 23(1)(a) of the Residential Tenancies Act 1987 (page 7.9).
Furthermore, in arriving at these conclusions, the Tribunal in Marshall was influenced by some of the reasoning in Rintel concerning a differently expressed provision and one that was concerned with the forfeiture of property. With respect, it erred in taking this approach (in particular, at page 7.8 and page 10.4 of Rintel). The reference in Rintel to a direct relationship between the use of the premises and the offence concerned only that part of the provision in that case that spoke of use of the premises "in the commission ... of the offence" (at page 529.25).
In the circumstances, we can discern no error in the Tribunal's interpretation of these words in s 91(1)(b). In particular, in our view, the Tribunal did not err in: (1) rejecting the submission that the Tribunal had to find that there was a "substantial connection" between the illegality and the use of the premises, 
It should be noted that there was no challenge to the Tribunal's factual findings of storage of cash and other items.
Findings of the Tribunal in relation to the identification information and the skimmer are challenged on the "no evidence" basis.
There will be an error of law where an inference of fact was not open to be drawn: Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33;  (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 356 per Mason CJ; Bruce v Cole (1998) 45 NSWLR 163 at 187G per Spigelman CJ.
Three aspects of the findings concerning the identification information are challenged on appeal. First, the finding that documents spread across the bed indicated a system of sorting and review of the documents. Secondly, the finding that these stolen papers were being used to steal identities and to defraud persons. Thirdly, the finding that the premises were being used for the purpose of compiling and referencing the identification information.
In our view, these findings went too far and were not open to the Tribunal on the material before it. We have come to this conclusion based on the totality of the evidence about the identification information.
The Tribunal should have confined the findings in respect of these items to the keeping of the information and review of some of it by the Tenant at the premises. 
Such activity was, in our view, a use of the premises for an unlawful purpose within the meaning of s 91(1)(b).
To paraphrase, the Tenant had pleaded guilty to possession of this identification information with intent to defraud. As noted earlier, she had not been charged with any offence relating to the use of the information.
The only additional evidentiary material before the Tribunal on this subject, beyond the Tenant's admission and conviction, was that: (1) the identification information related to more than 100 people,
In conjunction with her admission, these additional facts establish that the Tenant had the means and intent to use the information to defraud but do not permit an inference to the Briginshaw standard that the Tenant was actually using the information to do so or that she had a system of sorting or use of the information, or was compiling and referencing the information.
The Tribunal did not utilise the evidence about the skimmer or the electrical leads in arriving at these findings about the identification information. For the reasons concerning these other items below, evidence concerning them was incapable of being of any assistance in relation to findings about use of the identification information.
An additional submission is made by the Tenant that DSC Lavender's evidence about the location of documents on the Tenant's bed may not have been where the documents were when first found during the execution of the search warrant. It is unclear, it is said, that he was in the room at this time. The submissions surmise that it may have been the searching officers who placed the documents on the bed.
However, nothing in the statement or oral evidence of DSC Lavender has been drawn to our attention in support of this submission and it was not put to DSC Lavender in cross-examination. We do not accept this submission.
The Tenant challenges the finding of the Tribunal in relation to the use of the skimmer and the electrical leads (see in paragraph 20 above).
No charges and no admissions were made in relation to the skimmer and the electrical leads.
The evidentiary material before the Tribunal in relation to these items was sparse, vague and incomplete. In this respect, we repeat our analysis in paragraph 16(3), (4), (5) and (6) above.
On this material, it was not open to the Tribunal to make these findings.
The Tenant submits that the Tribunal failed to take account of a relevant consideration, namely the Landlord's policy about ineligibility for social housing where a tenancy is terminated on the basis of use of the premises for an unlawful purpose.
Clearly, in many, cases the impact on the Tenant of a termination order will be considered by the Tribunal in the exercise of its discretion whether to make such an order. Nothing in the statute precludes such consideration: Cain v New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation [2014] NSWCA 28 at  [39].
Section 91(2) does not expressly mandate that such impact be considered but it does not preclude its consideration. The matters there referred to as open for consideration do not refer to this matter, but it is expressly stated that the Tribunal is not confined to the consideration of the three listed matters.
In our view, impact on the Tenant of termination and, hence, material about future ineligibility for social housing is not a mandatory, relevant consideration. It is not explicitly said to be. We do not detect that it be so by implication: see Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend Ltd [1986] HCA 40;  (1986) 162 CLR 24 at 40.4.
Whilst such a matter appears as an obvious potential consideration, it is of some significance that three matters are specifically identified and impact on the Tenant is not one of them. It also occurs to us that there may be cases, for example, in circumstances where the unlawful use is grave, that impact on the Tenant becomes irrelevant. In its submissions, the Tenant does not identify any factors from which an implication that the Tribunal is bound to take this matter into account is said to arise.
However, that is not the end of the matter so far as the Tenant's grievance is concerned. In our view, in the circumstances of this case, the matter of impact on the Tenant of termination and, hence, material concerning future eligibility for social housing was a legitimate, available consideration, albeit not an obligatory one: Neat Domestic Trading Pty Ltd v AWB Ltd [2003] HCA 35;  (2003) 216 CLR 277 at  [20]. This was so, despite the absence of any evidence from the Tenant as to the consequences to her of termination, although the absence of such evidence reduced the force of her position.
We do not agree with the Tribunal's conclusion that it would be "merely speculating" about the Tenant's possible options: at [56]. This was a conclusion that appeared to be based upon the absence of any details of the policy before the Tribunal and because there had been no relevant pre-determination by the Landlord. 
We accept, as was submitted by the Landlord on the appeal, that the policy will not and cannot determine whether the Tenant obtains other social housing in the event of termination of her current tenancy. However, as the Landlord put to the Tribunal below [35], the situation was one in which the occupant is likely to be categorised as ineligible for social housing. There must be, at least, a substantial risk that this would be the result.
In view of what the Tribunal was told by the Landlord about the effect of the policy, the absence of the detail of the policy in evidence appears to be of little significance. It should not have been a reason for the "merely speculating" conclusion. In any event, it was open to the Tribunal to require that the policy be produced to it: see s 38(6)(a) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (the Act).
The policy was sought to be adduced by the Tenant on appeal and relied upon as a ground for leave to appeal on the basis that it was new evidence. 
At the hearing of the appeal, we examined the policy. However, it was not established that the evidence was not reasonably available at the time of the hearing at first instance, as required by cl 12(1)(c) of Schedule 4 of the Act. In the circumstances, we refuse leave to appeal on this ground.
However, in our view, in exercising its discretion whether to terminate, the Tribunal mistook the facts about the significance of this policy. The policy meant that it was likely that the Tenant would be ineligible for social housing or there was a significant risk she would be. The options for the Tenant were not a matter of mere speculation.
This is an error affecting a discretion of the kind referred to in House v The King [1936] HCA 40;  (1936) 55 CLR 499 at 505.2. It is not an error on a question of law as provided for in s 80(2) of the Act. Leave to appeal on this ground is, therefore, required.
In our view, such leave should be granted. The Tenant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision at first instance was not fair (cl 12(1)(a) of Schedule 4 of the Act), particularly where the error on this issue is assessed in the light of other errors we have identified concerning findings of unlawful use of the premises (see further in paragraphs 95 to 97 below).
We have now dealt with all grounds of appeal, save for the following two matters. 
The Tenant argued that it was an irrelevant consideration for the Tribunal to take account of the fact that its findings about unlawful use of the premises meant that the Tenant had breached her statutory obligation under s 51(1)(a) of the RTA not to use the premises for any illegal purpose, and her contractual obligation in clause 7.1 of the tenancy agreement to the same effect.
We see nothing in this argument. No reason was advanced why this was a matter precluded from consideration in the exercise of the discretion whether to terminate. We see no reason why it should be so precluded. In any event, such findings do not appear to have been material to the Tribunal's exercise of its discretion.
Leave to appeal is needed in respect of this ground.
On the appeal, the Tenant sought to rely on a report by Anand Narayanan dated 31 March 2014, received by the Tenant's legal representatives on 30 June 2014, concerning the Tenant's drug dependency and her favourable behaviour at the Dillwynia Correctional Centre. It was a report requested on 19 February 2014 by Magistrate Huber of the Local Court, Waverley in connection with the two offences relevant to these proceedings.
The Tenant seeks leave to appeal on the ground that this report is significant new evidence not reasonably available at the time the proceedings under appeal were being dealt with.
Bearing in mind the hearing date of 1 July 2014, the short answer to this point is that the Tenant has failed to establish that this material was not reasonably available at the relevant time.
The Tribunal was correct in making findings of use of the premises for unlawful purposes in so far as those findings were at the level of use of the premises for the storage or keeping of cash and identification information and, to an extent, the review of some of that identification information at the premises.
However, the Tribunal was not entitled to make the more extensive findings that it proceeded to make about the unlawful use of the identification information and the skimmer at the premises.
In addition, the Tribunal erred in concluding that it was mere speculation what the impact of termination would be to the Tenant having regard to the Landlord's policy concerning ineligibility for social housing.
Taken together, we do not conclude that these errors were inconsequential and could not have materially affected the outcome: D'Amore v Independent Commission Against Corruption [2013] NSWCA 187 at  [233].
In the circumstances, the appeal should be allowed and the whole of the case reconsidered by the Tribunal as constituted by the same Member.
The orders of the Appeal Panel are as follows: (1) Leave to appeal be granted in respect of the ground of appeal relating to the impact on the Tenant of the Landlord's policy about future ineligibility for social housing.
############# I'm default separator ##########90
APPEAL - question of error as to facts - leave to appeal required -arguable case - sufficient doubt as to findings made below - leavegranted.APPEAL - question of law - whether classification of inmates "services"for the purpose of the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977 (NSW), s 19 - classificationnot a service - appeal allowed - complaint dismissed. WORDS &PHRASES - "services" - "provides" - Anti-Discrimination Act 1977 (NSW), s19.
WRIGHT J, President: Mr Whiteoak, the respondent, has been serving a life sentence for rape and murder since 1983. Like all male inmates in the State's Corrective Services system during the period relevant to this appeal, he was classified into one of 7 categories "for the purposes of security and the provision of appropriate development programs", under the Crimes (Administration of Sentences) Regulation 2008 (NSW) (the C(AS) Reg).
In December 2008, he lodged a complaint under the Anti-Discrimination Act 1977 (NSW) (the AD Act) alleging that the appellant, the State of New South Wales, by the Commissioner of Corrective Services and other Corrective Services officers, discriminated against him on the ground of race in making a number of decisions relating to classification and development programs, in breach of s 19 of the AD Act. 
The complaint eventually came before the Administrative and Equal Opportunity Division of the Tribunal. In the Tribunal, the appellant defended the complaint in relation to the classification decision made on 15 December 2008 only on the ground that classifying inmates did not constitute providing "services" within the meaning of s 19 of the AD Act. The Tribunal rejected that argument and found that the appellant was relevantly providing "services". Consequently, the Tribunal made the following orders in Whiteoak v State of New South Wales [2014] NSWCATAD 45:
The appellant has appealed under s 80 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act) against the Tribunal's decision which was a decision made in the general jurisdiction of the Tribunal. In particular, the appellant seeks to have orders (1) and (2), referred to in the preceding paragraph, set aside. For the reasons which follow, I have concluded that the appeal should be allowed, the orders made by the Tribunal below should be set aside and in their place orders should be made dismissing the whole of Mr Whiteoak's complaint. 
As at 15 December 2008, Mr Whiteoak was serving a life sentence in a correctional centre operated by the appellant. On that day, a delegate of the Commissioner of Corrective Services decided to continue Mr Whiteoak's security classification as Category C1. Mr Whiteoak complained that the appellant's conduct in this regard amounted to direct discrimination on the ground of race which breached s 19 of the AD Act. 
On this appeal, it is not necessary to examine the particular circumstances of, or reasons for, that decision of 15 December 2008 since the appellant throughout the proceedings accepted that its conduct in relation to the 15 December 2008 classification of Mr Whiteoak would breach s 19 of the AD Act if it was correct to characterise classifying inmates as providing "services" within the meaning of s 19. 
As a consequence, the issue of whether classifying inmates constitutes providing "services" lies at the heart of this appeal, notwithstanding that there are a number of different grounds of appeal. 
In its notice of appeal lodged on 13 May 2014, the appellant's grounds of appeal were formulated as follows:
I shall consider the question of leave to appeal before dealing with other aspects of the appeal. 
As ground 4 did not raise a question of law but was an appeal based on an error as to facts, the appellant sought leave to appeal in respect of that ground. This was necessary, having regard to s 80(2)(b) of the Act and the fact that the decision appealed from was a final, not an interlocutory, decision. 
The respondent accepted that grounds 1,2, 3 and 5 raised questions of law and did not contend that leave to appeal was required in respect of those grounds. He did, however, oppose leave being granted in respect of ground 4. The respondent submitted that it had been determined on a number of previous occasions that classifying inmates and the provision of work and local leave permits were services - see for example Contreras-Ortiz v Commissioner, Department of Corrective Services  [2008] NSWADT 308 at  [129] and Dezfouli v Department of Corrective Services  [2008] NSWADT 198 at  [45]. It was also submitted that whether a particular activity is a service is a question of fact and a decision on the facts cannot have "widespread implications". The fact finding process and the factual conclusions reached were not so flawed as to attract a grant of leave. 
The principles which are applicable in considering whether or not to grant leave to appeal under s 80 of the Act have been summarised by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [84] as follows:
In my view the appellant's 4th ground of appeal is, on its face, at least arguable. Furthermore, the conclusion that, in the factual circumstances of this case, classification of inmates could be characterised as helpful or beneficial to inmates in the relevant sense is attended by sufficient doubt as to warrant its reconsideration by the Appeal Panel. 
In this case, there are additional features which justify the grant of leave. First, classification of inmates is a standard process which has been and is likely to be a feature of the way in which the Commissioner of Corrective Services manages the correctional centres for which he is responsible and the inmates in those centres, for a considerable period. There have already been a number of cases brought under the AD Act alleging unlawful discrimination in relation to classification and related decisions by the Commissioner or his delegates. These have included the present matter at first instance, Whiteoak v State of New South Wales [2014] NSWCATAD 45, as well as Contreras-Ortiz v Commissioner, Department of Corrective Services  [2008] NSWADT 308 and Richard v Director General, Department of Justice and the Attorney General (Corrective Services NSW)  [2011] NSWADT 158. It is likely that further complaints of unlawful discrimination arising out of classification decisions have been or will be made in the future. On this basis, the question of whether the Commissioner's or his delegates' classifying of inmates is helpful or beneficial in a relevant sense and thus amounts to providing "services" within the meaning of the AD Act involves a question of public importance which might have general application. 
Secondly, the question of whether activities such as classification of inmates are distinctly governmental functions which do not relevantly constitute the provision of help or a benefit to an affected person raises an issue of principle of some importance. 
Thirdly, as referred to below in these reasons for decision, the explicit findings of fact made by the Tribunal below are somewhat limited and in relation to parts of the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant it is not entirely clear which parts of that evidence were accepted and which rejected. It would be helpful if the factual basis of the case was clarified. This could be done if leave to appeal is granted. 
In all these circumstances, I am satisfied that it is appropriate to grant leave to appeal to the appellant in respect of ground 4 so that the factual foundation for any decision is clearly established and so that all the grounds relied upon can be fully addressed. An order for leave to appeal should be made. 
The application for leave to appeal was heard concurrently with the appeal itself and consequently the parties have made submissions on all issues and the Appeal Panel is in a position to deal with all aspects of this appeal. 
In order to identify the relevant facts and resolve any factual issues before addressing the questions of law, I shall address first ground 4 and the factual question of the nature and purpose of the classification of inmates. Secondly, I shall consider whether the Tribunal erred in law by asking itself the wrong question as raised in ground 1 of the appellant's grounds of appeal. Lastly, I shall deal with the proper construction and application of the word "services" in s 19 of the AD Act in the circumstances of the present case and in so doing I shall address grounds 2, 3 and 5. 
Ms Sharpe of counsel, who appeared for the appellant, put her case on appeal squarely on the basis that considering and determining (including varying) inmates' classifications were not "services" within the meaning of s 19 of the AD Act, and consequently orders 1 and 2 made by the Tribunal below should be set aside. Section 19 provides:
In the Tribunal at first instance, Mr Whiteoak had identified the relevant "services" which were said to have been provided by the appellant and to have been refused or provided on terms to Mr Whiteoak in a variety of ways not limited to the consideration and determination of inmates' classifications. For example, in paragraph 18(c) of the further amended points of claim the services were identified as "[v]arying the classification of inmates for the purpose of the provision of external leave opportunities" and in paragraph 18(d) as "[c]onsidering whether the classification of inmates should be varied for the purposes of the provision or development programs, external leave opportunities or the engagement in work or employment opportunities". 
The Appeal, however, was conducted on a more limited basis. In his written submissions, Mr Howell of counsel, who appeared for Mr Whiteoak, submitted at paragraph 18: "The Appeal is limited to the Tribunal's conclusion that inmate classification was capable of characterisation as a 'service' for the purposes of s 19 of the AD Act, and the Orders ultimately made". Similarly, at paragraph 21 in those submissions it was said: "[t]he only issue on the appeal is whether in making a decision as to an inmates classification under cl 22 of the 2008 Regulations as part of the regular case plan review required by cl 13 of said Regulations (more particularly the case plan review conducted on 15 December 2008), the Appellant is providing a service to an inmate." 
In oral submissions before the Appeal Panel, this approach was confirmed. Mr Whiteoak's counsel accepted that if consideration and variation of inmates' classifications were not "services" within s 19 of the AD Act, then orders 1 and 2 made by the Tribunal below should be set aside. Mr Howell also confirmed that the basis upon which Mr Whiteoak was arguing that the decision of the Tribunal below was correct was that the respondent discriminated against Mr Whiteoak on the ground of race in the terms on which Mr Whiteoak was provided with the services of consideration and variation of his classification in breach of s 19(1)(b) of the AD Act. 
Accordingly on this appeal, the Appeal Panel is required to address only the issue of whether consideration and determination (including variation) of inmates' classification constituted providing "services" within the meaning of s 19 of the AD Act. For simplicity, I shall use the expression classification of inmates or a similar expression to refer to the process by which inmates were classified as being in one of the security categories set out in the relevant regulation, either initially when an inmate was first received at a correctional centre or subsequently when the classification was reviewed and the category to which the inmate was assigned might be maintained or varied. 
As at 15 December 2008, the management of inmates in correctional centres for which the appellant was responsible was governed by the Crimes (Administration of Sentences) Act 1999 (NSW) (the C(AS) Act). Section 79 of that Act permitted the making of regulations and included the following:
The regulations in force at 15 December 2008 were found in the C(AS) Reg. Part 2.2 of the C(AS)Reg (cll 12 to 29) was headed "Case management and classification", and dealt with case management in Division 1 of that Part and classification of inmates in Division 2. 
Part 2.2, Division 2, which had the heading "Classification and designation of inmates", included the following:
Development programs, as referred to in the chapeau of cl 22(1) (quoted above), also formed part of an inmate's "case plan". A case plan was defined in the Dictionary to the C(AS) Reg as follows:
As has already been noted, case plans were dealt with in Division 1 of Part 2.2 of the C(AS) Reg which included the following:
As the Tribunal below was dealing with a number of allegations of unlawful discrimination over a number of years, it did not at all time refer exclusively to the legislation as it applied at 15 December 2008, which has been set out above. 
It was not in dispute that the development programs referred to in cl 22(1) included programs known as "External Leave Programs" or ELPs whereby certain inmates were permitted to be unconfined by a physical barrier with or without various forms of supervision, depending on the nature of the ELP in question. 
It should also be noted that the Review Council referred to in cl 16 of the C(AS) Reg is the Serious Offenders Review Council (SORC) established under s 195 of the C(AS) Act. SORC was relevant to Mr Whiteoak's case planning processes and placement because he was an offender who was serving a sentence for life and thus fell within paragraph (a) of the definition of "serious offender" in s 3(1) of that Act. 
The Tribunal below dealt in some detail with whether classification of inmates constituted providing services. At [59], the Tribunal accepted the conclusion reached in Contreras-Ortiz v Commissioner, Department of Corrective Services  [2008] NSWADT 308 at  [115] that "[t]he touchstone for a service [in this context] is whether the act is helpful or beneficial to the relevant class of persons to which the person alleging discrimination belongs". The Tribunal's consideration of the classification of inmates is principally found at [78] to [161] in the reasons for decision of the Tribunal below. 
The Tribunal at first instance noted at [78] that it was in issue on the pleadings whether determination of a "security classification" was a service. At [79], the Tribunal summarised the contest between the parties as it understood it as follows:
The Tribunal then referred to evidence given by Mr Halloran, Executive Director of Classification, Case Management and External Leave Programs of the respondent and by Mr Grant, Assistant Commissioner - Offender Services and Programs of the respondent. At [28] the Tribunal had noted that both Mr Halloran and Mr Grant had sworn affidavits and had been cross examined. Nonetheless, neither there nor elsewhere in its reasons for decision did the Tribunal expressly state whether or not it accepted the evidence of those witnesses or make comprehensive findings based upon that evidence. Rather, the Tribunal gave a summary of portions of the evidence of those witnesses in a number of paragraphs between [81] and [106]. Some of this evidence outlined the procedures that were followed in relation to classification and case plans. There was no suggestion at any stage that those procedural matters were in contest and, consequently, they should be accepted as having been established and it appears to be implicit that this is what the Tribunal below did. The Tribunal also referred to portions of the C(AS) Reg, which, in the form applicable at 15 December 2008, are relevantly included in the passages quoted above. 
At [85], there is a passage which is in contest. At that paragraph, the Tribunal below stated:
At [94], it is recorded that Mr Halloran's evidence was that the "legal obligations with respect to a classification" were supplemented by the policies set out in the Classification Manual, which was in evidence before the Tribunal and extracts of which were before the Appeal Panel. It applied at all times material to this appeal. Once again there was no contest concerning this evidence and the Tribunal appears to have accepted it. In the paragraphs which followed the Tribunal drew attention to parts of the Classification Manual. 
At [100] and [101], the Tribunal recorded the evidence of Mr Halloran as follows but made no express finding as to whether it accepted or rejected that evidence:
As to Mr Grant's evidence, a similar approach was adopted by the Tribunal at first instance at [103] to [106]. Those paragraphs relevantly included the following:
Without making any specific and express findings in relation to the evidence referred to in the preceding paragraphs, the Tribunal then recorded the parties' submissions at [107] to [114] and a number of principles derived from the authorities at [115] to [120]. 
The Tribunal's reasoning then was as follows: (1) Classification falls within the regime for case management and case management of an inmate is helpful or beneficial to the inmate - [121], [138] and [146] - this conclusion was based on passages extracted from the Classification Manual (at [122] to [135], [139] to [143]) and from another document which was in evidence and was referred to as the External Leave Programs Policy or ELP Policy (at [136] to [137]);
At [159] - [160] the Tribunal referred to a number of authorities relied upon by the appellant but distinguished them on the basis that the fact situations addressed by those cases were not readily comparable to the present situation. Finally, at [161] the Tribunal concluded as follows: "consideration of whether the classification of inmates should be varied for the purpose of the provision of appropriate development programs is also a service within the meaning of cls 4 and 19 of the AD Act". 
In ground 4, the appellant challenged the factual basis for the decision of the Tribunal at first instance. This ground involved the contention that the Tribunal erred in not finding that the overriding concern of classification of inmates was security rather than the provision of help or a benefit to inmates. This occurred, according to the appellant, because the Tribunal failed to place sufficient weight on the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant and the Classification Manual. 
In its written submissions the appellant went so far as to submit that the Tribunal gave "no weight" to the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant and gave no reasons for failing to give it weight. If proper weight had been given to that evidence and the material from the Classification Manual the appellant submitted that the Tribunal should have concluded: (1) Security classification is concerned solely with maintaining security within the prison and protecting the community;
Under this ground, the appellant also challenged the specific findings made by the Tribunal below at [85] that Mr Halloran gave evidence that as the case plan included the inmate's security classification certain matters (not specifically identified in the reasons for decision) were taken into account in assigning an inmate's classification. In addition, particularly in oral submissions, the appellant challenged the finding at [154] that Mr Grant accepted that in making a classification decision in 2009 he took into consideration the benefits potentially available to Mr Whiteoak. 
Further, the appellant also relied particularly on the Classification Manual, properly understood, as supporting its position in this regard and contended in effect that the Tribunal's conclusion that the C(AS) Reg and other documents were not consistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence should be rejected. 
The respondent submitted that the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant was in fact considered by the Tribunal. It was set out at some length in the Tribunal's reasons. For example, at [145] the Tribunal recorded the effect of the evidence of those witnesses as being that security is the only consideration and that access to programs is determined by the level of security classification once that is made. Their evidence was also accepted in part, for example at [157] where the Tribunal concluded that classification of inmates was "essential to the security of the correctional system". Thus, it was incorrect to state that their evidence had been given no weight or had not been considered. 
The respondent also referred to the Tribunal's analysis of the C(AS) Reg and the Classification Manual and how their provisions interacted with the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant. The substance of the respondent's submission was that the Tribunal considered and gave the evidence of those witnesses due weight but having regard to the terms of the C(AS) Reg and documents such as the Classification Manual and the ELP Policy, it concluded, as it was open for it to do, that inmate classification was not solely about security but had a duality of purpose which included the provision of appropriate development programs. 
In addition, the respondent drew attention to the bases for the findings referred to at [85] and [154] and contended that those findings were supported by the evidence. 
Despite the absence of express findings based on the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant, from the reasons for decision of the Tribunal at first instance, especially [78] to [158], referred to above, it appears to me that the Tribunal considered the evidence of those two witnesses. 
In my view, the Tribunal's careful recounting of the evidence and detailed consideration of inmate classification in the light of that evidence and the provisions of the Classification Manual and other documents indicate, at least implicitly, that the Tribunal generally accepted the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant except to the extent that the provisions of the C(AS) Reg or relevant documents indicated that the situation was not as those two witnesses suggested. As a consequence, it appears to me that where the Tribunal was of the view that the C(AS) Reg, the Classification Manual or the ELP Policy indicated that the purposes of, or considerations relevant to, classification of inmates were wider than just security and included the provision of appropriate development programs or services, the Tribunal did not accept Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence but rather relied upon what the Tribunal took to have been indicated by the regulation, the manual or the policy. 
In these circumstances it could not be said that the Tribunal gave their evidence no weight. It appears that the Tribunal gave that evidence some weight but did not accept parts of it because the Tribunal concluded that certain passages from the C(AS) Reg, the Classification Manual and the ELP Policy were inconsistent with that evidence. 
It was open to the Tribunal to go about its fact finding task in this way, assessing the witnesses' evidence against the relevant documentary material. There was no illogicality or unfairness in how the Tribunal reasoned. Therefore, I do not accept that the Tribunal erred by taking the general approach that it did. 
It does not follow from this, however, that there was no error of fact in the Tribunal's decision falling within ground 4. There are 2 further matters that must be considered in relation to this ground. First, the appellant specifically challenged the findings at [85] and [154] of the Tribunal's reasons as being in error and those challenges must be addressed. Secondly, ground 4 raises the question of whether the Tribunal erred by not concluding, after giving due weight to the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant in the light of the C(AS) Reg, the Classification Manual and the ELP Policy, that the sole and overriding concern of security classification of an inmate was security rather than the provision of help or a benefit to an inmate. In support, the substance of the appellant's submission was that, properly understood, the various extracts from the Classification Manual and the ELP Policy as well as the terms of cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg which were relied upon by the Tribunal were not inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence and therefore did not provide a sound basis for rejecting their evidence. Rather, that material supported their evidence. Thus, the Tribunal was wrong to reach the conclusions that it did. I shall address these aspects of ground 4 in order. 
At [85], the Tribunal below stated that Mr Halloran had given evidence that "as the case plan includes the inmate's security classification these matters are taken into account in assigning an inmate's classification." The appellant contended that this misstated the evidence that Mr Halloran gave in his statement and in cross examination. 
I accept, as the appellant submitted, that Mr Halloran gave evidence in his statement that inmates were given a security classification to indicate the level of supervision that they required in order to maintain the good order of the correctional centre, the safety of the inmate and other inmates, the safety of staff and the safety of the community at large and that such classification was not tailored to make an inmate eligible for a development program. Further, Mr Halloran in cross examination did state that "the purpose of classification is not to ensure that someone does a program" and reiterated that "the purpose of classification, each classification level has a security purpose, it confines people under a certain security with a certain level of supervision". Nonetheless, the words that the Tribunal below used at [85] of its reasons are taken almost exactly from the statement of Mr Halloran at paragraph 20 where he stated:
Thus, there is no error on the part of the Tribunal in this regard. 
I do not believe, however, that this evidence and the finding provide substantial support for either the appellant or respondent in this appeal. Some of the matters set out in cl 13(3)(a) to (h) could, as a matter of fact and depending on the circumstances of an inmate, be relevant to the question of the nature of the barrier and level of supervision that was required in respect of an inmate in order to "maintain the good order of the correctional centre, the safety of the inmate and other inmates, the safety of staff and the safety of the community at large", to use Mr Halloran's words. Thus some of those matters might, where relevant, be taken into account in assigning an inmate's classification. Some of those matters might also be relevant to other aspects of the case plan, including which development programs the inmate should be encouraged to participate in. From this it cannot be concluded, however, that classification was or was not designed to benefit or be helpful to an inmate in such a way as to lead to the conclusion that classifying inmates constituted providing "services" for the purposes of s 19 of the AD Act. 
Further, the logic of Mr Halloran's statement was flawed. Contrary to what he said, it does not follow merely from the fact that "the case plan includes the inmate's security classification", that all of the cl 13(3) considerations must be taken into account in assigning an inmate's classification. Clause 13(3) merely said that "[i]n preparing an inmate's case plan, regard is to be had to the following matters [as set out in paragraphs (a) to (h)]". The case plan included as one element, but involved more than, the inmate's classification. Thus, as a matter of logic, the matters in cl 13(3)(a) to (h) did not all necessarily relate to the classification decision. 
As to the finding at [154] challenged by the appellant, this is not of direct relevance to the 15 December 2008 decision. The finding was that "Mr Grant accepted in cross examination that in making this decision he was taking into consideration the benefits which were potentially available to Mr Whiteoak, in particular the leave benefits he was seeking." It concerned a decision in December 2009 when the circumstances were different from those which applied in December 2008. 
Nonetheless, the finding in [154] may be more generally relevant as it calls into question Mr Grant's evidence that "in my experience eligibility for a particular program is never a consideration when determining the appropriate security classification" and, for example, his evidence in cross examination that: 
The relevant circumstances relating to this 2009 decision were as follows. On 4 December 2009 Mr Grant (as the delegate of the Commissioner) decided not to approve a reduction in Mr Whiteoak's classification from C1 to C2D as recommended by SORC. In doing so, Mr Grant made a written comment "I am unclear what benefits are of progression to C2D". 
In paragraphs 35 and 36 of his statement Mr Grant dealt with this decision and said "I did not see any benefit in Mr Whiteoak being progressed from 'C1' to 'C2'" and "My substantive reason for not progressing Mr Whiteoak to a 'C2' classification is that he had not to my satisfaction undertaken the custody based intensive treatment program for sex offenders (CUBIT). My main concern was that he undertakes CUBIT to reduce his risk of re-offending. Secondly, I did not see that there was any benefit in progressing to the 'C2', since a reduction to C2 in Mr Whiteoak's case would have no practical effect on the supervision and managerial regime under which he was being managed and would not give him access to leave programs that he was seeking." 
Mr Grant was cross examined on his comment "I am unclear what benefits are of progression to C2D" and the paragraphs from his statement quoted above. 
The cross examination included the following:
From this it appears that Mr Grant sought to acknowledge that classification decisions have consequences as to the programs available to an inmate and this may or may not be a benefit. He then re-iterated that he could not, in that case, see that there were any benefits from changing classification. Strictly, this is different from what the Tribunal found. Although it is not entirely clear, Mr Grant does not appear to have accepted the positive statement that in making the 2009 decision concerning Mr Whiteoak's classification he was taking into consideration the benefits which were potentially available to Mr Whiteoak, in particular the leave benefits he was seeking, as the Tribunal found at [154]. Rather, he was drawing attention to the absence of any benefit if the SORC recommendation were accepted as a reason for not accepting that recommendation. 
Thus, it could be concluded that the Tribunal below misstated the effect of what Mr Grant had said in cross examination. Notwithstanding this, however, it does not follow that such a misstatement would invalidate the Tribunal's reasoning or factual foundation for its decision so that the appeal should be allowed on this basis. Although Mr Grant might not have accepted the positive proposition as found by the Tribunal, there is an obvious connection between classification and participation in development programs and this played a part in his decision making process in December 2009. It is the nature of the classification process and its connection with development programs as disclosed in the relevant legislation, manuals, policies as well as the evidence of how and why the classification and case planning processes are undertaken which should ultimately determine whether classification of inmates constitutes providing "services" for the purposes of the AD Act. That conclusion should not be determined by what Mr Grant may or may not have done when he made the December 2009 decision. 
The Tribunal described the principal elements of the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant which were relevant to the contest between the parties and to the issue the Tribunal had to resolve as follows:  (1) That there was a structural separation between undertaking security classification and access to development programs (at [79]) (I understand the reference to "structural separation" to be to the conceptual structure of the processes not to how the processes were physically carried out); and
The Tribunal concluded (at [157]), based upon a review of portions of the Classification Manual and the External Leave Program Policy together with cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg, that classification "takes into account appropriate development programs" and had a duality of purpose including "a purpose which is beneficial or helpful to an inmate". These conclusions were apparently based upon the premise that the C(AS) Reg and the extracts from the Classification Manual and the EPL Policy identified by the Tribunal were inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence concerning structural separation and the sequential nature of the process of decision making concerning classification and the provision of appropriate development program as part of the case planning process. 
There was no challenge on this appeal to the conclusion that preparing and implementing a case plan was helpful and provided a benefit to an inmate, as found by the Tribunal at [121] and [138]. Further, it was accepted by the parties that classification was directly related to the case planning process not least because cl 13(1)(a) of the C(AS) Reg required that an inmate's case plan "must indicate ... the inmate's classification for the time being". It may also be accepted on this appeal that the purpose of providing development programs to inmates was to help or benefit them. 
As noted above, the substance of the appellant's submissions was that, in so far as classification was concerned, the C(AS) Reg and the extracts from the Classification Manual and the External Leave Program Policy relied upon by the Tribunal at first instance did not provide a proper basis for rejecting Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence or reaching a conclusion contrary to that evidence. The appellant submitted that this was because the regulation and the extracts were not actually inconsistent with that evidence but rather provided confirmation of or support for that evidence. The respondent maintained that the evidence of the two witnesses was inconsistent with the material relied upon by the Tribunal below and that the conclusion reached was open on the evidence. 
Accordingly, it is necessary to review the C(AS) Reg and the passages from the Classification Manual and the other documents relied upon by the Tribunal at first instance in some detail and to determine whether they are indeed inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence. 
As has been noted above, cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg stated that "[e]ach male inmate is to be classified in one of the following categories for the purposes of security and the provision of appropriate development programs". Thus, it could be legitimately said that classification has two purposes. The appellant submitted, however, that these two purposes were not equivalent. As to the first, security, it was submitted that this purpose was the end sought to be achieved by classifying inmates, namely the good order of the correctional centre in which the inmate is held, the safety of the inmate and other inmates, the safety of staff and the safety of the community at large. The second, it was submitted, was of a different order. It merely identified a consequence which flowed from the classification of an inmate and was not the end sought to be achieved by classification. An inmate's classification was one element that had to be "indicated" in the inmate's case plan and the other elements of the plan such as placement and development programs depended to some extent on classification but classification did not depend on those other elements. 
It can be accepted that the word "purpose" has a number of meanings in ordinary English. One is "the object for which anything is ....done" and another is "the practical result, effect ..." (Macquarie Dictionary Online Ed, meanings 1 and 6 respectively). It is possible, as the appellant submitted, to read the chapeau of cl 22(1) as identifying that security was the object sought to be achieved by inmate classification while providing inmates with appropriate development programs was something that was a mere consequence of, but did not directly influence, the inmate's classification. If this is so, the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant is consistent with such a reading and should not be rejected because of the terms of cl 22(1). 
This is not, however, the only way in which cl 22(1) can be read. As the respondent submitted, inmate classification could be characterised as being done both with the object of maintaining security and with the object, not just the consequence, of making appropriate development programs available to inmates. Even if this submission were accepted, it does not follow that the chapeau to cl 22(1) is inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence. 
As one purpose of classifying inmates identified in cl 22(1) was "security", considerations relating to security naturally played a significant, even determinative, role in deciding an inmate's classification. This is consistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence. 
If the other purpose or object, as opposed to consequence, of classifying inmates was the provision of "appropriate development programs", there would also naturally be some connection between an inmate's classification and which programs were "appropriate". Some indication of the connection can be found in the 7 categories AA to C3, set out in cl 22(1). They specify at what times and with what types of barrier the inmates in that classification should be confined and in some cases the nature of the facilities, barrier or supervision required in the light of the risk to national security, the risk to good order and security or otherwise. A significant number of the categories would preclude an inmate from participating in some development programs. Thus, it can been understood that while classification of inmates had the object of providing "appropriate development programs" for inmates this meant that it had the object of ensuring that the development programs provided to an inmate were "appropriate" having regard to the inmates' classification. 
Consequently, under cl 22(1), classification could be said to have a duality of purpose, namely: (1) to maintain security; and (2) to restrict the development programs provided to an inmate to those programs which were "appropriate" in the sense of being consistent with the inmate's classification. This being so, security factors would be the only considerations relevant to determining an inmate's classification and to determining which programs were "appropriate" for an inmate having regard to that classification. It would only be after an inmate's classification and the programs "appropriate" for that inmate had been determined, by considerations of security, that the other needs and circumstances of the inmate would be taken into account to decide in which actual development programs the inmate should be encouraged to participate. 
Therefore, even if cl 22(1) is read as indicating that classification has two purposes or objects, it is entirely consistent with classification of inmates preceding, conceptually at least, decisions concerning development programs and placement in the case planning process. It is also consistent with classification decisions being made by reference to security considerations and not by reference to what development programs would be beneficial for the inmate. Consequently, cl 22(1) should not be seen as inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence. It provides no proper basis for its rejection. 
At [144] the Tribunal concluded that the extracts from Chapters 13 and 14 of the Classification Manual set out in [139] to [143] disclosed "within the classification process at least some focus on the inmate's needs". The appellant in effect contended that this was not so. 
The first extract at [139] was from Chapter 13 of the Classification Manual as follows: 
The first paragraph of this extract is consistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence as to security being the only consideration relevant to determining an inmate's classification. The second paragraph is also consistent with the classification being conceptually separate from the provision of appropriate development programs and being but one integer in the development of an initial case plan. This extract does not provide any proper support for rejecting Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence. 
The second extract, set out at [140], from Chapter 14 of the Classification Manual was:
The first paragraph of this extract is the same as the first paragraph from the Chapter 13 extract and provides no proper basis for rejecting the two witnesses' evidence. The second paragraph, the "Note", correctly states that classification and placement are part of the case plan (see cl 13(1)(a) and (b)) of the C(AS) Reg) and that the case plan is designed to address an inmate's needs. It does not follow from this, however, that classification of inmates is designed to address inmate needs. As to the third paragraph, it does not relate at all to an inmate's classification and deals with the presumed benefit to be derived by inmates from development programs. There is nothing in this extract which is inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence nor does it provide any proper basis for rejecting their evidence. 
The third extract, at [141], was also from Chapter 14 and stated:
The "level of trust" accorded to an inmate reflects the security risk the inmate poses. This is established by the paragraph numbered 2 which followed the passage quoted by the Tribunal. Paragraph numbered 2 contained the following: "where the inmate has failed to respond to the level of trust signified by the existing security classification rating that the inmate enjoys (eg substantiated assaults on staff or inmate(s); documented stand-over tactics in minimum security situations; consistent record of non-compliance with centre routine)". As to the last part of the passage relied upon, whilst it is correct that a security classification is part of an inmate's case plan, that part of the passage has no bearing on whether or not classification is based on security considerations rather than which development programs might benefit an inmate. It does not undermine the conclusion that classification is conceptually antecedent to the determination of what development plans should be made available to the inmate. An inmate's classification is, under cl 13(1)(a), to be indicated in, and thus is a part of, the inmate's case plan. There is nothing in this extract which is inconsistent with the two witnesses' evidence nor does it support rejecting their evidence. 
The fourth extract is taken from a paragraph numbered 7 on page 140 of Chapter 14 of the Classification Manual and from the same section as the previous extract. The full paragraph is as follows (with the portion relied upon by the Tribunal in italics):
The Tribunal below emphasised the words "the needs of the inmate" in this paragraph. This paragraph, however, deals with a particular issue namely classification decisions in the context of a pending investigation or where the allegations have been found to have no substance. It does not deal with classification decisions in general. In addition, the "needs" of the inmate which must be balanced are not specifically identified. It might refer to needs of the inmate that could be addressed through development programs or it might refer to the inmate's security needs, for example the need to be protected from other inmates. This latter need, the safety of the inmate, is one that Mr Halloran referred to as being taken into account in classification decisions in his evidence summarised by the Tribunal at [100]. In the circumstances, the passage is neither so clear nor compelling that it would amount to a firm basis, on its own, for rejecting the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant on this topic. 
Finally, the Tribunal referred at [143] to a paragraph numbered 8 on page 136 of Chapter 14 of the Classification Manual which was as follows:
The Tribunal below emphasised the words "response" and "criminogenic need factors". This passage deals with placement not classification. Placement, or the identification of the correctional centre at which the inmate was to be held, is one of the three elements that was required by cl 13(1) of the C(AS) Reg to be "indicated" in an inmate's case plan, along with the inmate's classification and the services and programs in which the inmate should be encouraged to participate. Placement and classification are separate although related processes as the classification will determine to some extent the type of correctional centre in which an inmate may be placed. Nonetheless, from this passage it does not follow that "criminogenic need factors" are taken into account or determinative when a classification, as opposed to a placement, decision is being made in respect of an inmate. This passage is not inconsistent with Mr Halloran's or Mr Grant's evidence and once again provides no proper basis for rejecting their evidence. 
This consideration of these passages demonstrates that, contrary to what the Tribunal said at [144] and [145], these passages do not: (1) "disclose within the classification process at least some focus on the inmate's needs, both within the context of the detailed case plan and the process of classification itself" - [144]; or
Moreover, these passages from the Classification Manual were not inconsistent with and did not justify the Tribunal's rejection of the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant. 
At [147] to [149], the Tribunal then considered ss 197(2)(a) and 198(1) and (3) of the C(AS) Act and concluded "... it is plain that within the operation of s 198 of the C(AS) Act, SORC is bound to consider rehabilitation and re-entry of the offender into the community as one aspect of public interest when providing advice and making recommendations with respect to security classification. This is plainly helpful and beneficial to the inmate." 
Sections 197 and 198 relevantly provided, as at 15 December 2008, as follows:
The terms of ss 197 and 198 do not support the Tribunal's conclusion that SORC was bound to consider rehabilitation and re-entry of the offender into the community as one aspect of public interest "when providing advice and making recommendations with respect to security classification". 
Under s 197(2)(a) SORC's functions include providing advice and making recommendations with respect to 3 things: security classification of serious offenders; the placement of serious offender; and, the provision of developmental programs for them. When performing functions under s 197(2)(a), s 198(1) provides that SORC "must consider the public interest ...". Section 198(3) provides that when SORC is considering the public interest it is required to take into account the non-exhaustive list of factors set out in paragraphs (a) to (m). It does not follow from these provisions that each of those factors is necessarily relevant to each of the 3 functions identified in s 197(2)(a). It cannot be inferred that the factor mentioned in s 198(3)(k) which obviously is most applicable to the determination of which developmental programs should be made available to an inmate must be taken into account when SORC is providing advice and making recommendations concerning an inmate's security classification rather than the inmate's placement or developmental programs. 
Furthermore, s 198(2) does contain specific considerations to which SORC must have regard when it is dealing with security classification. That subsection provides that before advising or recommending that a serious offender should be given a less stringent security classification, SORC must consider any submissions made by the State and by victims of the serious offender, if it appears to SORC that the new classification would allow the offender to become eligible for unescorted leave of absence under a local leave permit or interstate leave permit. This consideration is clearly focused on the safety and security of the community and the offender's victims. 
In all the circumstances, the Tribunal's conclusion at [149] does not follow from the terms of ss 197 and 198 of the C(AS) Act and those sections do not provide any sound basis for rejecting Mr Halloran's and Mr Gant's evidence. If anything, s 198(2) tends to support their evidence. 
At [150] to [154] the cross examination of Mr Grant concerning his comment in relation to the December 2009 classification decision is considered. I have already dealt with whether there was any error by the Tribunal in reaching its conclusion at [154] and have found that although the Tribunal's statement in that paragraph may not be entirely accurate, it is not such an error as to vitiate by itself the Tribunal's decision. In these circumstances, this material does not assist either the appellant or the respondent on this ground. 
Another matter upon which the Tribunal relied, at [155], was a passage from paragraph 18.1.5 of the External Leave Programs Policy as follows:
At [156] the Tribunal found that this passage "contemplates the application of the classification process for more than one purpose including the beneficial one of approval for external leave programs." Implicitly, this appears to have been a further reason for the Tribunal to reject Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence. 
That extract from paragraph 18.1.5 is not inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence nor does it provide a sound basis for rejecting that evidence. 
In order to be eligible for an external leave program a male inmate must, among other things, have a C3 classification and, if not an Australian citizen, have been approved by the Commissioner through the SORC or Director's Review Committee for progression to C3 - see paragraph 18.1.7 of the ELP Policy. In these circumstances, it is natural that if a male inmate is to be recommended for participation in an external leave program the inmate must already have, or be recommended for, a C3 classification. The first paragraph of the passage relied upon indicates that the process for such an inmate obtaining a C3 classification is the same as the standard process for all inmates. The passage does not indicate that inmates who might benefit from participating in external leave programs would be given a C3 security classification that was not justified on security grounds or that was determined by using a process that was different from the security classification process applied to inmates generally. 
Further, when the second paragraph of the extract describes the case management and classification approval process for external leave programs as involving the Case Management Team considering an inmate's case management plan and making recommendation to the relevant officer for the inmate's classification to C3, it should not be assumed to mean that a male inmate who should not be classified C3 on security grounds would be recommended for that classification so that he could participate in an external leave program that might benefit him. Suitability for participation in external leave programs depends in the first place upon having a C3 classification as paragraph 18.1.7 of the ELP Policy made clear. 
Thus, neither paragraph of this extract from paragraph 18.1.5 establishes that considerations other than security determined whether any particular security classification was given to an inmate. The fact that a C3 classification was necessary to be able to participate in external leave program did not mean that a recommendation for a C3 classification was made on other than security grounds. 
For these reasons, neither the chapeau to cl 22(1) nor the extracts from the Classification Manual or the ELP Policy upon which the Tribunal relied is inconsistent with the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant. Accordingly, they did not amount to a proper basis for rejecting the evidence of those witnesses. 
In submissions before the Appeal Panel, attention was drawn to a passage in the ELP Policy in section 18.1 under the heading "Program Requirements: Unescorted External Leave Programs" which was not referred to by the Tribunal below. The passage was as follows:
The fact that the appellant has the objective stated in that passage when determining security classifications does not mean that an inmate would be given a security classification that was otherwise unjustified on security grounds in order to allow the inmate to participate in such programs. The objective is not necessarily inconsistent with Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence. The objective could be achieved by determining the least restrictive classification for an inmate having regard only to security considerations. If this was done, inmates would have the maximum ability to participate in programs (either internal or external) without compromising security. Thus, it does not follow from this passage that considerations other than security determined inmate classification. 
Indeed, it appears from this passage and cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg that the classification process could be understood as involving decision making based solely upon security considerations but, given there was a choice of 7 categories for male inmates, assigning the least restrictive category consistent with the applicable security considerations to an inmate. This might well have had consequential benefits for the system in terms of the reduced cost of confining inmates in lower security environments as well as consequential benefits for inmates contingent upon whether the classification assigned to them permitted them to participate in particular development programs. 
Since the objectives in the passage referred to could be achieved in a manner that was consistent with the evidence given by Mr Halloran and Mr Grant, the passage does not provide a proper basis for rejecting their evidence. 
The Tribunal at first instance did not make comprehensive, express findings of fact in relation to Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence and the process of determination of classifications for inmates. I have concluded that the documents relied upon by the Tribunal as the basis for implicitly rejecting that evidence were, properly understood, not inconsistent with the evidence and thus the Tribunal's fact finding process was flawed. Given that the findings of fact in relation to the process and considerations relevant to classification of inmates were not soundly based, it is necessary for the findings of fact to be reconsidered. Consequently, the question arises as to how factual findings should arrived at in the present case. 
The Tribunal below did not make any adverse credit findings against Mr Halloran and Mr Grant or expressly indicate that their evidence should be rejected in any specific respect. I have already concluded that the Tribunal's finding at [154] which might be thought to call into question parts of Mr Grant's evidence was not strictly correct in the light of the actual cross examination and, in any event, it did not appear to be determinative of any significant issue one way or the other. It does not provide a proper basis for concluding that Mr Grant's evidence was not generally credible and reliable. 
In all the circumstances, in my view the Appeal Panel is in as good a position as the Tribunal below to make findings on the basis of Mr Halloran's and Mr Grant's evidence and the other relevant documentary evidence. In addition, in this case where the original complaint of discrimination was made in December 2008 it would be inappropriate to remit the proceedings for a further hearing in the Administrative and Equal Opportunity Division in order to have appropriate factual findings made and the matter reconsidered in the light of those findings of fact together with the conclusions on the questions of law raised in the other grounds of appeal. Having regard to the obligation to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings, in my view the proper course is for the Appeal Panel to make findings of fact, given that leave has been granted to appeal on the factual questions. 
For these reasons, I would uphold the appeal to the extent that it is based on ground 4 and, further, I would accept the factual evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant, including the material recorded in the paragraphs between [80] and [106] of the Tribunal's reasons for decision. I would not, however, treat as evidence or rely upon the opinions expressed by Mr Halloran and Mr Grant on various occasions as to whether classification of inmates was a "service". 
For the purposes of the further determination of this appeal and in summary, I would find that: (1) A case plan for an inmate must, under cl 13(1) of the C(AS) Reg, indicate the inmate's classification, the correctional centre in which the inmate was to be held and the services and programs in which the inmate should be encouraged to participate. 
I now turn to consider ground 1 and then the proper construction and application of the word "services" in s 19 of the AD Act and grounds 2, 3 and 5 relied upon by the appellant. Having considered those matters, I shall then address what conclusions follow in the light of the findings of fact made above. 
The appellant's first ground of appeal was to the effect that the Tribunal below had identified and answered the incorrect question in relation to whether the appellant relevantly provided services. It was contended that the Tribunal asked whether a case plan or case management was helpful or beneficial to an inmate (and hence the provision of services within s 19) whereas it should have addressed the question whether classification was "in and of itself" helpful or beneficial to an inmate. 
As has been noted above and as stated in paragraphs 18 and 21 of the respondent's written submissions, Mr Whiteoak in substance based his case for the purposes of this appeal on the proposition that when the appellant classified an inmate as being in one or other of the categories set out in cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg, it was providing services to that inmate for the purposes of s 19. Accordingly, it was the classification of inmates not the preparation of a case plan for, or case management of, an inmate which was said to be the relevant service. 
The essence of the appellant's submissions was that the Tribunal elided classification of inmates with developing an inmate's case plan. It was said that, as a result of that elision, the Tribunal concluded that classification was beneficial or helpful to an inmate. The appellant relied on [121] and [138] of the Tribunal's reasons for decision where the following conclusions were expressed:
In addition, the appellant referred to [157] of the decision below. 
These conclusions, it was submitted, establish that the Tribunal asked itself the wrong question because they do not address whether security classification of inmates, as opposed to case management or the preparation of a case plan, was a service. 
The respondent submitted that, while the Tribunal did reach the conclusions set out at [121] and [138] that was not the full extent of its reasoning on the question of whether classification of inmates was a service. The submissions then analysed in some detail to the reasoning of the Tribunal at [139] to [158] which has already been set out above. 
As a result of that analysis, the respondent contended that the Tribunal specifically considered whether classification was itself beneficial to an inmate. This was made explicit in the Tribunal's conclusion at [157]:
The respondent then submitted that ground 1 of the appeal should be dismissed. 
Having regard to the reasoning and conclusions of the Tribunal at [139] to [158], I am of the view that the Tribunal did pose and address the question of whether classification, rather than case management, of inmates involved beneficial or helpful activities for those inmates. The conclusion that "classification can be properly characterised as helpful or beneficial to inmates in the sense that within case plan management it determined the availability of access to services and programs" (at [157]) demonstrates that the Tribunal did address the question of whether classification could be characterised as helpful or beneficial. Thus, the Tribunal did not commit the error contended for by the appellant in ground 1. 
Whether the Tribunal's conclusion that the classification of inmates constituted providing "services" was correct is a different matter and will be considered later in these reasons. 
Thus, I would dismiss the appeal in so far as it is based on ground 1. 
In the present case, the appellant was found to have breached s 19 of the AD Act relevantly because the Tribunal below held that classification of inmates constituted providing "services" for purposes of that section. In the appellant's grounds of appeal, grounds 2, 3 and 5 relate to the proper construction of the word "services" in s 19 of the AD Act and its application to the facts of the present case. 
As I understood it, ground 2 was to the effect that the expression "goods and services" in s 19 should be construed as words of limitation and classifying inmates did not fall within the area of activity so delimited by the section. Under ground 3 the appellant argued that the authorities referred to in that ground indicate that, on the proper construction of s 19 of the AD Act and in particular "services" and its application to the facts, classification of inmates did not constitute the provision of "services" for the purposes of that section because it was the performance of a statutory duty rather than the provision of services as explained in the authorities to which the appellant referred. Ground 5 raised the contention that an activity which was an inherent part of incarceration could not amount to "services" provided by the public authority responsible for incarceration. Each of these grounds will be addressed in considering the proper construction and application of s 19. 
The proper construction of s 19 and whether the words "goods and services" are intended to be words of limitation as contended in ground 2 will depend on, among other things, the text of the provision and its legislative context. 
Section 19 is in the following terms:
What constitutes "discrimination on the ground of race" for the purposes of s 19 and other provisions of the AD Act is set out in s 7 of the that Act which states: 
Instances of services which are "services" for the purposes of the AD Act are given in s 4(1) as follows:
The long title of the AD Act is "An Act to render unlawful racial, sex, and other types of discrimination in certain circumstances and to promote equality of opportunity between all persons" (emphasis added). The structure of the AD Act bears this out as the Act does not render unlawful every instance of discriminatory treatment of a person on the ground of race or one of the other grounds of unlawful discrimination specified in the AD Act (namely: sex - s 24, transgender - s 38B, marital or domestic status - s 39, disability - s 49B, responsibilities as a carer - s 49T, homosexuality - s 49ZG, and age - s 49ZYA). As Basten JA observed in the Court of Appeal in Commissioner of Police v Mohamed [2009] NSWCA 432;  262 ALR 519 at  [23] citing IW v City of Perth [1997] HCA 30;  (1997) 191 CLR 1 at 14-15, the AD Act renders discrimination on one of the specified grounds unlawful only in "specific areas of social activity". 
The AD Act specifies the same areas of social activity, essentially, for most of the grounds of discrimination. These areas of social activity are divided into 2 categories, namely: (8) "Discrimination in work" - see Part 2 Division 2 and the corresponding divisions and parts relating to other grounds of discrimination; and 
"Discrimination in work" in the AD Act includes discrimination in relation to contexts involving the following: (a) Applicants for employment and employees - see eg ss 8, 25 and 49ZYB and the cognate provisions of the AD Act; (b) Commission agents - see eg ss 9, 26; (c) Contract workers - see eg ss 10, 27; (d) Partnerships - see eg ss 10A, 27A; (e) Discrimination by local government councillors - see eg ss 10B, 27B; (f) Industrial organisations - see eg ss 11, 28; (g) Qualifying bodies - see eg ss 12, 29; (h) Employment agencies - see eg ss 13, 30. 
"Discrimination in other areas" in the AD Act usually includes discrimination in relation to each of the following areas of social activity: (a) Education - see eg s 17 and cognate provisions of the AD Act; (b) Provision of goods and services- see eg s 19; (c) Accommodation - see eg s 20; (d) Registered clubs - see eg s 20A. 
In relation to relevantly similar legislation from another State, Brennan CJ and McHugh J in the High Court held in IW v City of Perth [1997] HCA 30;  (1997) 191 CLR 1 at 14 - 15:
Given the title and structure of the AD Act and in the light of the observations of the Court of Appeal and High Court on the nature of the prohibitions in that and similar Acts referred to above, it should be accepted that s 19 is not, on its terms and in the context of the AD Act as a whole, a general prohibition on racially discriminatory conduct and it should not be construed or applied so as to have that effect. In that sense, the appellant's contention that the expression "goods or services" in s 19 are words of limitation which forms part of ground 2 is correct. 
Consequently, it would be an error to adopt a construction of s 19 that was so broad as to render unlawful every instance of discrimination constituted by differential, detrimental treatment on the ground of race. Such a construction might effectively render the other sections in Part 2, Divisions 2 and 3 of the AD Act unnecessary. 
Although not articulated in this way, the crux of the appellant's complaint underlying ground 2 appeared to be as follows. There was a risk of falling into the error referred to in the preceding paragraph if the word "services" was taken out of its context in s 19 and construed as referring to any case where a person was treated in a manner that was potentially beneficial to the person. This risk arises because benefit and detriment function as opposites. Thus, if refusing to treat a person in a particular way, or treating the person in that way on terms, could be characterised as detrimental, it could be argued in every case that treating the person in that way must be at least potentially beneficial to the person. Consequently it could be said to follow in every case that treating persons in this way amounted to providing a service or services to those persons. This general form of reasoning could be used to bring every case of differential, detrimental treatment on the ground of race within the operation of s 19 because each instance could be said to be discrimination in the provision of services. 
Whether the appeal based on ground 2 should be upheld will, however, depend on the proper construction of s 19 taking into account not only that the words "goods or services" are words of limitation as explained above but also the text of s 19 taking the ordinary and grammatical meaning of the words of the provision in the context of the AD Act as a whole and taking into account its legislative purpose. In this regard, see the recent summary of the principles concerning statutory construction set out in Smith's Snackfood Company Ltd v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue (NSW)  [2013] NSWCA 470 at  [84] and the authorities cited there. In addition, it will be appropriate to consider whether there is any authority which casts light on the proper construction of s 19 or requires a particular construction to be adopted, as raised in grounds 3 and 5. 
It is now appropriate to turn to the actual text of s 19 and the provisions directly related to that section. 
Section 19 relevantly refers to: (1) "a person who provides (whether or not for payment) goods or services";
In s 4(1) there is what might appear to be an inclusive definition of "services" but paragraphs (a) to (e) do not actually define that term at all because they use the word being defined to describe what is included in that term. As to paragraph (f), this paragraph appears to expand the meaning of "services" to include "access to, and the use of any facilities in, any place or vehicle that the public or a section of the public is entitled or allowed to enter or use" to the extent that such access to public facilities does not fall with the ordinary meaning of "services". 
Where there was an inclusive definition of "services" in almost identical terms to paragraphs (a) to (e) in s 4(1) of the AD Act, the High Court held that "services" should be "read as having its ordinary and broad meaning" - IW v City of Perth [1997] HCA 30;  (1997) 191 CLR 1 at 23. 
Giving a word its ordinary meaning does not, however, preclude the word deriving shades of meaning from its context and the syntax of the sentence in ways which are significant for the case in hand - Duffy v Da Rin [2014] NSWCA 270 at  [30]. 
In s 19, "services" in the plural is used not the singular form of the word. Drawing a distinction between service and services is something with which the law is familiar; the law differentiates between a contract of service and a contract for services. In addition, on every occasion on which the word "services" is used in s 19, it is the provision of, or the refusal to provide, the services which is the focus of attention. 
The Macquarie Dictionary (Online Ed) gives only one relevant definition of the plural form:
That dictionary does provide the following relevant definitions of "service":
Brennan CJ and McHugh J in IW v City of Perth [1997] HCA 30;  (1997) 191 CLR 1 at 11, without drawing attention to the potential distinction between "service" and "services", referred to some of the meanings of "service" in the Macquarie Dictionary including some of those mentioned above as well as those with a public element such as the duty or work of public servants and supplying water, gas or the like to the public. 
The Oxford English Dictionary (Online Ed) identifies relevant meanings for the plural form as follows:
This latter definition of "services" indicates that the term when combined with the word "goods" refers to those products (tangible or intangible) which supply the needs of consumers. This is significant because the term "services" in s 19 only ever occurs in the collocation "goods or services"; it never appears alone. In the heading to s 19, "services" appears in the expression "Provision of goods and services". The text of the section therefore suggests that "services" will not in this context include activities in discharge of governmental functions or statutory duties which do not have as their primary or sole function meeting the needs of consumers. The heading, to the extent that it may be relied upon under ss 34 and 35 of the Interpretation Act 1987 (NSW), supports this view. 
In addition in the OED for the singular form of the word, similar meanings to those found in the Macquarie Dictionary are given, as well as: "23 Supply of the needs of (persons, ...)". 
These meanings of "services", as illuminated by s 4(1), establish that "services" in its ordinary meaning in a context such as the present refers to those activities done for the purpose of supplying the needs of, providing assistance to, doing work for or providing help to persons. Paragraph (f) of s 4(1) has the effect that "services" also includes access to public facilities but that aspect of the meaning is not relevant to the present case. 
Although, when "services" are provided, the person to whom they are provided receives a benefit, it does not follow that in every case where activities happen to result in a benefit to a person those activities must amount to "services" provided to that person. Neither the definitions referred to above nor the illustrations given in s 4(1) support the conclusion that merely carrying out activities which may, but also may not, have a consequence which is beneficial for a person should always be said to amount to providing services to that person. Indeed, if such an approach to the construction of "services" were adopted, it might well lead to the error, referred to above, of construing s 19 so broadly that every instance of discrimination constituted by differential, detrimental treatment on the ground of race would be unlawful under that section and the remaining prohibitions in Part 2 of the AD Act would be unnecessary. It could also lead into the error of ignoring the word used in the statute, namely "services", and substituting for them an imprecise definition of "services" such any activity which is helpful or beneficial. Thus, answering the question whether classification of inmates can be said to be helpful or beneficial will not, by itself, determine whether classification of inmates constitutes "services" within the meaning of s 19. 
Furthermore and as noted above, "services" in s 19 only occurs as something that is or could be provided. The word "provide" is defined in the Macquarie Dictionary as:
Both of these meanings convey the essential notion of making something available. They do not suggest in any way that "provide" includes imposing something on a person. Thus, if a governmental function or statutory duty is being performed and the persons affected have no ability to decide whether to accept or reject what is done or the outcome, it is unlikely that services are being provided in those circumstances. 
Finally, the provisions of s 19 read together with s 7 of the AD Act establish that: (1) It is the alleged perpetrator, to use the language of s 7, who must provide the services; and
Having regard to all of these matters, it can be concluded that the specific area of social activity identified by s 19 (insofar as it refers to services and not goods or public access) is where the alleged perpetrator (whether for payment or otherwise) makes available to the class of persons to which the aggrieved person belongs activities to supply the needs of, to do work for, or to assist or help that class of persons. When a governmental function or statutory duty is being performed for a purpose other than benefitting the relevant person and any outcome is imposed on, rather than just being made available to, that person, it is unlikely that this amounts to "services" being "provided". Subject to any contrary requirement or approach in the authorities, providing "services" should be construed accordingly. 
At this point, it is necessary to consider whether the authorities, including those referred to in grounds 3 and 5 of the appellant's notice of appeal, require a different conclusion to that reached in the preceding paragraph as to the proper construction of "services" in s 19. 
The leading High Court authority on "services" in the context of anti-discrimination legislation is IW v City of Perth [1997] HCA 30;  (1997) 191 CLR 1. 
IW v City of Perth involved consideration of the construction of "services" in a Western Australian anti-discrimination statute which contained provision similar to ss 19, 7 and 4(1) of the AD Act. 
In that case at 13, Brennan CJ and McHugh J concluded that wide as the definition of "services" was, it was not capable of including the refusal to exercise the statutory discretion provided for under planning legislation to approve the use of premises for use other than as a shop. This conclusion was reached notwithstanding that, if the application for planning approval had been granted, there would have been a benefit to the relevant person. In the result, their Honours concluded that the appeal should be dismissed
Brennan CJ and McHugh J held that activities of a public authority such as a local council which involved making decisions, either of a specific or a general nature, may not amount to providing "services." At 15 they held:
Further, at 17 and 18 the following passages appear in their Honours' judgment:
Thus, in ordinary English usage the mere fact that one of the possible outcomes from the exercise of a statutory duty by a public authority may be to benefit a person does not have the consequence that "services" are thereby being provided to the person. 
In IW, Dawson and Gaudron JJ took a slightly different approach concluding at 24 that the relevant "service" was the exercise of the planning approval discretion and that:
The High Court does not appear to have considered whether "service" and "services" might have different shades of meaning which were relevant on that occasion. They did conclude that "[t]he word 'services', in its ordinary meaning, is apt to include the administration and enforcement by the City of Perth of the Planning Scheme" and thus it was correct to hold that the City was "providing a service to residents". 
Whilst it can be accepted that consideration of planning applications by a public authority is generally beneficial to the community as a whole, a refusal of the application for approval would appear to be detrimental to the applicant for approval. The judgment of Dawson and Gaudron JJ does not suggest that their conclusion was based upon the consideration that because the potential for the exercise of the discretion in favour of giving planning approval which would be beneficial to the applicant for approval, exercising the discretion was providing "services". 
In the way that their Honours identified the services in question, they held that in order for there to be a refusal by the City of Perth to provide services as alleged, it was necessary to show a refusal to consider whether or not approval should be given. Since the City had considered and refused the application, it was not possible in that case to conclude that that there had been a refusal to provide the services in question. Dawson and Gaudron JJ agreed with Brennan CJ and McHugh in the result that the appeal should be dismissed. 
In IW, Gummow J also agreed that the appeal should be dismissed. At 39, his Honour held in relation to the general principles applicable to the construction of "services":
Gummow J also drew attention to the fact that conduct may have a duality of purpose so that it can constitute both the discharge of a statutory duty and the provision of services, at 44 as follows: 
Whether in a particular case, however, there is such a duality of purpose and while discharging a statutory duty the public authority is also providing services must turn on the particular circumstances of the case. 
In IW, Toohey and Kirby JJ dissented. 
Although the majority who dismissed the appeal did not all agree on the construction and application of the word "services", the reasons for judgment of Brennan CJ and McHugh J, Dawson and Gaudron JJ and Gummow J and their conclusions in that particular case do not require a different conclusion on the proper construction of s 19 to be reached from that set out above. 
In Contreras Ortiz v Commissioner Department of Corrective  [2008] NSWADT 308, the Administrative Decisions Tribunal (the ADT) held at [115] that:
The ADT in that case then went on to observe at [128] that it was not necessary for it to decide whether classification of inmates "amount to a service within the meaning of ss 4 and 19 of the [AD Act]" but nonetheless expressed the view at [129]:
It should be noted that these were not the alleged services which the parties both agreed were the subject of this appeal. In addition, the ADT appears to have reasoned that because the activities could be characterised as "helpful or beneficial to inmates" they were accordingly "services" for the purposes of s 19 of the AD Act. 
For the reasons given above, I do not accept that every activity which could be characterised as beneficial or helpful to a class of persons constitutes "services" provided to that class of persons within the meaning of s 19. Having regard to the ordinary meaning of the terms in that provision and their context and purpose, providing "services" involves more than just engaging in activities which may be beneficial or helpful. The words of the section and the authorities, including IW and those referred to below, establish that activities which have contingent and consequential benefits for a class of persons but which are not performed for the purpose of benefiting that class are unlikely to amount to "services" provided to that person, especially where the person has no choice whether to accept or reject the outcome and where the activities are in performance a governmental function or of a statutory duty. The approach taken by the ADT in Contreras Ortiz appears to involve impermissibly substituting the words "activities which can be characterised as helpful or beneficial" for the word "services" without regard to the shades of meaning derived from the context, the syntax of the sentence and the purposes of the legislative provision including the purpose of defining the specific area of social activity in which racial discrimination was to be rendered unlawful. 
In ground 3, the appellant also drew attention to a decision of the House of Lords and a number of first instance Australian decisions dealing with construction of "services" in the context of anti-discrimination legislation. Ground 5 was based upon a proposition derived from one of those first instance decisions, Rainsford v Victoria [2007] FCA 1059;  (2007) 167 FCR 1. It was contended that these authorities had not been properly considered by the Tribunal below and as a result it fell into error by holding the classification of inmates constituted providing "services" within the meaning of s 19. 
The respondent submitted that the Tribunal had referred to those authorities and that they were correctly distinguished or taken into account appropriately. Thus, no error was disclosed. 
It is true, as the respondent submitted, that these authorities were referred to by the Tribunal at first instance at [159] of its reasons for decision and some of them were discussed in a little more detail at [115] to [120]. The appellant's submission was not, however, that they had not been considered at all but rather that the authorities had not been properly considered or applied. Essentially at [159] the Tribunal below found that the fact situations in those cases were not readily comparable with the present case and did not consider them further. 
In order to deal with grounds 3 and 5, the Appeal Penal will address each decision in turn. 
In R v Entry Clearance Officer, Bombay, Ex parte Amin  [1983] 2 AC 819, the House of Lords considered whether the operation of the special voucher scheme under the Immigration Act 1971 (UK) in that case breached s 29 of the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 (UK). The relevant conduct was that of an entry clearance officer in Bombay refusing to grant to the appellant a special entry voucher which would have allowed her to enter the United Kingdom. 
Subsection (1) of s 29 rendered it unlawful "for any person concerned with the provision (for payment or not) of goods, facilities or services to the public or a section of the public to discriminate against a woman who seeks to obtain or use those goods, facilities or services by [doing certain things]". In s 29(2) "examples of the facilities and services mentioned in subsection (1)" were given and these included "(g) the services of any profession or trade, or any local or other public authority". 
At 835, Lord Fraser of Tullybelton (with whom Lords Keith of Kinkel and Brightman agreed) held that "the entry clearance officer in Bombay was in my opinion not providing a service for would-be migrants; rather he was performing his duty of controlling them." 
In so far as the legislation and circumstances in Amin are sufficiently analogous to make the conclusion of their Lordships relevant in the present case, Lord Fraser's conclusion establishes that when an officer of a public authority was performing a statutory or other public duty which involved a decision controlling whether a person who was a would-be migrant could enter the UK, this did not amount to providing "services", notwithstanding that a favourable decision by the officer could be said to benefit or help the person. Although the reasoning is not elaborated upon, it appears that the House of Lords concluded that the purpose of performing the statutory duty was not to assist or help the would-be migrants but was rather to control their entry into the UK in the public interest and accordingly the activities were not "services". 
The decision in Amin is consistent with the construction set out set out above and emphasises that even though a decision by a public authority might have a contingent and consequential benefit for the person affected by the decision, if it went in the person's favour, this does not mean that the decision and the decision making process in that case constituted providing "services". 
In Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force v Estate of Russell [2001] NSWSC 745 Sully J concluded that in pursuing Mr Russell and arresting him the police officers involved were providing "police services" within the meaning of, and as described in, s 6(3)(a) and (b) of the Police Service Act 1990 (NSW) but these services were being provided to the community at large and not specifically to Mr Russell. It was also held, however, that as soon as Mr Russell was arrested, the relevant police officers "became thereupon charged with a public duty to provide to the late Mr Russell police services by way of protection of his person from injury or death, and the protection of his property from damage [as described in s 6(3)(b)]" but failed to do so. That failure was held to amount to a refusal to provide services within s 19 of the AD Act - see [44] and [45]. 
The decision in Russell turned on the particular provisions of the Police Service Act and the proposition that "police services" as defined in that Act were also "services" for the purposes of the AD Act. There is no similar argument advanced in the present case. In any event, Sully J's decision is not inconsistent with the conclusions as to the proper construction of s 19 set out above. 
The authorities which involve factual situations which are more closely analogous to the present case are Robinson v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2012] FCA 770 and Rainsford v Victoria [2007] FCA 1059;  (2007) 167 FCR 1. 
In Robinson v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force, the Federal Court of Australia had before it a complaint of disability discrimination in breach of s 24 the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth) as in force in March 2009 (the DD Act). The case arose out of the way in which the applicants, Mr Robinson, a man with a mental illness, and the manager of his estate under the Protected Estates Act 1983 (NSW), were treated in the course of and following upon the arrest of Mr Robinson in relation to certain offences. One of the issues that arose in that matter was expressed by the Court as being: "Was the respondent [the NSW Commissioner of Police] providing 'services' to each of the applicants ... for the purposes of s 24(1)". 
Section 24(1) of the DD Act was as follows:
In s 4 of the DD Act there was an inclusive definition of "services" which was very similar, but not identical, to that in s 4(1) of the AD Act. 
Yates J held at [168], consistently with the decision in Russell, that the Police officers were not providing services Mr Robinson when pursuing and arresting him. Further it was held that even after his arrest when maintaining custody over him in the ambulance transporting him to the hospital or at the hospital they were not providing him with "services". 
His Honour then went on to deal with what was described at [170] as the "only fully articulated claim regarding unlawful discrimination in relation to the provision of 'services' under s 24 of the Act [which] concerns 'dealing with' Mr Robinson's bail application". 
At [178] to [180], Yates J held:
The consideration and determination of a bail application is, in my view, relevantly analogous to consideration and determination of an inmate's classification under cl 22 of the C(AS) Reg. 
Yates J's reasoning and conclusions support the view that in its ordinary meaning or "true sense" (to use his Honour's words), the concept of "services" does not extend to all activities which might produce a benefit for the person alleging discrimination. The contingent and consequential benefit of being freed on bail if the bail decision went in Mr Robinson's favour was not sufficient to lead to the consideration and determination of the bail application being classified as providing "services" for the purposes of anti-discrimination legislation. Moreover, the reasoning makes manifest that there is a difference between a public authority providing services and "the exercise of government authority, in the operation of the criminal justice system, to control such persons and to regulate their liberty". The difference appears to turn, first, upon the fact that bail decisions are generally designed to serve the public interest in maintaining the security of the community and the alleged victims as well as ensuring that persons charged with criminal offences appear to answer those charges. Their purpose is not primarily to benefit the person charged with an offence except to the extent that that can be achieved without compromising security or the integrity of the criminal justice system. Secondly, a bail decision is imposed upon a person who has been charged with an offence. That person cannot decide whether to accept or reject the consequences of the bail decision. 
Yates J's decision was the subject of an appeal to the Full Court of the Federal Court in Robinson v Commissioner of Police, New South Wales Police Force [2013] FCAFC 64. At  [145], the Full Court held:
At [165] to [168], the Full Court was required to consider whether the approach adopted by Yates J was too narrow and held:
Thus, the Full Court of the Federal Court found no reason to doubt the correctness of Yates J's decision and endorsed without reservation the approach taken in regard to the construction and application of the word "services". 
These decisions in Robinson, once again, do not suggest that the construction of s 19 set out above is incorrect. Indeed, they provide considerable support to the view that classification of inmates, like the granting of bail in the operation of the criminal justice system, involves making decisions in order to control inmates and to regulate their liberty and not in order to benefit them. Persons charged with offences and inmates have bail and classification decisions imposed on them. They have no choice whether to accept or reject the decisions or the process by which they are made. For these reasons, neither bail decision nor classification decision should be seen as constituting the provision of "services" within the meaning of the relevant statutes. 
The fact that persons charged with offences might receive the benefit of being freed on bail, if the decision was in their favour, did not have the consequence in Robinson that considering and deciding bail applications amounted to the provision of "services" to those persons. The reasoning of Yates J indicates that where the benefit to a person was contingent and consequential and not the purpose of the activities in question, those activities are unlikely to fall within the meaning of "services" in s 19 of the AD Act or similar provisions. Similar reasoning can be applied in the present case. 
In Rainsford v Victoria [2007] FCA 1059;  (2007) 167 FCR 1, Sundberg J was required to consider the circumstances of an inmate in the Victorian prison system and whether transportation of prisoners between prisons and between prison and court or accommodation of a prisoner in a cell amounted to the provision of services within s 24 of the DD Act. His Honour accepted at [79] that facilities provided by those with statutory responsibility for confining and managing inmates may amount to providing "services" for the purposes of the DD Act but held that neither transportation nor accommodation of prisoners involved the provision of services within the meaning of s 24. 
At [73], the Court accepted that it was a useful test to ask whether the act said to amount to "services" involved helpful or beneficial activity, but in a qualified way. It was noted that most activities are helpful or beneficial to someone and that in itself did not make them "services". The relevant question was whether the act or activity was helpful or beneficial to the relevant class of persons to which the person alleging discrimination belonged. 
At [77] to [79], Sundberg J held:
On the appeal from Sundberg J's decision, the Full Court of the Federal Court observed in Rainsford v State of Victoria [2008] FCAFC 31 at  [9]:
A comment such as that of the Full Court provides no substantial assistance or guidance and does not amount to a conclusion that Sundberg J was wrong. 
Two initial propositions can be drawn from the passages quoted from Sundberg J's decision. First, the ordinary meaning of "services" does not include "a fundamental integer of a system over which those affected have no or almost no control" - [77]. Secondly, accommodating an inmate in a correctional centre should not be described as the provision of services to the inmate. It should rather be described as an essential element of the exercise of a statutory duty - [78]. 
These situations of transport and accommodation of inmates in prison considered by Sundberg J have obvious similarities to the classification of inmates and accordingly the reasoning has considerable force in the present case. The reasoning certainly does not undermine the conclusion on the construction of s 19 reached above. Indeed, the emphasis that Sundberg J gives to the lack of control by those affected by the decision and the fact that transportation and accommodation decisions are in effect simply imposed on an inmate provides support for view that providing services involves making those services available to a person rather than imposing them. 
The passages quoted from Sundberg J's decision are also relevant to ground 5 relied upon by the appellant and it is appropriate to deal with that ground at this point. 
Ground 5 was to the effect that the Tribunal erred in finding that security classification was the provision of "services" to an inmate within s 19 since the prison system could not function without security classification and security classification is an inherent part of incarceration. The submission that where an activity was something without which the prison system could not function and was an inherent part of incarceration and consequently that activity did not constitute the provision of "services" is derived from [77] of Sundberg J's judgment. 
Sundberg J observed at [77] that the prison system in Victoria simply could not function without prison transport and on that basis concluded that it was not ordinary English usage but rather was "an artificial use of the word service" to apply it prisoner transport. This was apparently because prisoner transport was a "fundamental integer of a system over which those affected have no or almost no control". 
These observations on the ordinary English meaning of providing "services" are consistent with and support the conclusion concerning the proper construction of "services" in the context of s 19 referred to above. 
In my view, none of these authorities, apart from Contreras Ortiz if it were accepted as correct, provides a basis for departing from, and indeed they support, the conclusions that for the purposes of s 19 of the AD Act: (1) providing "services" to a person involves making available to the class of persons to which the aggrieved person belongs activities to supply the needs of, to do work for, or to assist or help that class of persons; and
Further, the authorities establish that merely because an activity might provide for some persons contingent and consequential benefits that, of itself, will not necessarily provide a basis for holding that the activity constituted "services" for the purposes of s 19 of the AD Act. 
To the extent that the Tribunal did not adopt such a construction of "services" in s 19, it erred as contended in grounds 2, 3 and 5. What follows from this conclusion will depend upon the application of this construction of s 19 to the facts of the present case. 
The identification or description of the activities alleged to constitute "services" in a case such as the present is a question of fact - Waters v Public Transport Corporation [1991] HCA 49;  (1991) 173 CLR 349 at 361, 394 and 404. In this case, the services alleged to have been provided by the appellant were the activities involved in the classification of male inmates. The findings of fact concerning those matters which should be made are set out above and the evidence of Mr Halloran and Mr Grant should be accepted. 
Clause 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg imposed a statutory duty to classify male inmates. That duty was carried out by the Commissioner of Corrective Services or his delegates on behalf of the appellant and it had to be carried out from time to time as part of the case planning process and by such times as permitted the classification to be indicated in the inmate's case plan. The case plans were to be provided at the times required under cl 12 and other clauses of the C(AS) Reg. 
A male inmate could not choose whether or not he would accept a classification. In that regard, a classification was unlike development programs offered by the appellant to inmates. Under cl 13(1)(c) of the C(AS) Reg, these were "programs in which the inmate should be encouraged to participate". Implicit in cl 13(1)(c) is that the programs were made available to inmates but there was no duty, statutory or otherwise, to participate in them. 
Classification of a male inmate into one of the 7 categories listed in cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg was for the purpose of maintaining security, in the sense of the good order of the correctional centre in which the inmate was held, the safety of the inmate and other inmates, the safety of staff and the safety of the community at large. Classification also had the purpose or consequence of restricting the development programs for which an inmate was eligible to those programs consistent with his security classification. An inmate's classification was determined solely on the basis of security considerations. The evidence established that apart from his security needs, any benefit or help to a male inmate was not a relevant consideration in determining his classification. That is not to say that benefit to an inmate was not relevant in determining the development programs in which he should be encouraged to participate as part of the case plan prepared for him once his classification had been determined. Making available appropriate development plans to inmates did have the purpose of benefitting or helping inmates. 
On the ordinary English meaning of the words used in s 19, a person is not described as being provided with services, if the person has no control over the alleged services or over whether or not they are accepted. That is the situation which applied in relation to the classification of male inmates. Inmates had no control over the classification process or outcome. They could not decide whether or not to accept the classification or its consequences. 
The security category into which an inmate is classified under cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg is determined by the needs of the system and the protection of the community, not the help or benefit which it might provide to the inmate. Consequently, classification of inmates should not be characterised as constituting activities to supply the needs of, to do work for, or to assist or help the inmate. Thus, it should not be taken as falling within the description of "services" in s 19. 
The fact that if a male inmate was given a C3 classification he would become eligible for development programs such as external leave programs and this could be seen as a benefit for the inmate does not mean that classification of inmates is an activity engaged in to supply the needs of, or to assist or help, inmates. In the case of the decision whether or not to grant bail in Robinson and the decision of the entry clearance officer in Amin, it was possible that the person alleging discrimination could have obtained a benefit from the decision, if it was favourable. Notwithstanding this, in neither of those cases was it held that this meant that the public authority was relevantly providing "services". The benefit in those cases was contingent and consequential. Conferring that benefit was not the purpose for which the activity was undertaken. Any benefit that might arise out of being classified as C3 or lower was similarly contingent and consequential. As those cases demonstrate, such a benefit does not provide a basis for concluding that classification of inmates constituted making available activities or assistance to help or benefit an inmate in a relevant sense. 
Both the Tribunal below and the respondent relied upon the proposition that simply because classification was the exercise of a statutory duty it did not follow that it could not, at the same time, also involve the provision of "services" within the meaning of s 19 of the AD Act. As Gummow J explained in IW at 44 the activities in question may have a duality of purpose. An example would be where a local council had an express statutory duty to provide a library or garbage collection for the public or for rate payers in the local government area for which the council was responsible. In that case, the activities involved in providing a library or garbage collection could properly be characterised as activities to supply the needs of, to do work for, or to assist or help the public or rate payers in that area. Any benefit would not be contingent or consequential. The benefit was the purpose for which the activities were engaged in. Thus, not only was the council discharging its statutory duty when it provided a library or garbage collection it could also be said to be providing "services" within the meaning of a provision such as s 19 of the AD Act. 
In seeking to apply this reasoning concerning duality of purpose in the present case, the respondent placed considerable emphasis, as did the Tribunal below, on the statement at cl 22(1) of the C(AS) Reg that "[e]ach male inmate is to be classified in one of the following categories for the purposes of security and the provision of appropriate development programs". It was then submitted that this established that classification of inmates had two purposes. One focused on security and the other on the provision of beneficial development programs for inmates. 
It was then argued that although classification of inmates to the extent that it was carried out for security purposes involved the discharge of a statutory duty rather than the provision of services, to the extent that it was carried out for the purpose of providing appropriate development programs, it amounted to providing services to those affected because access to those programs was beneficial or helpful. Thus, classification of inmates should be characterised as providing services to those inmates being classified because of the duality of purpose. 
Both as a matter of ordinary English usage and authority, discharging a statutory duty can co-exist with the provision of services. The classification of inmates is, however, not such a case. Clause 22(1) does not support the conclusion for which the respondent contends. 
Assuming for the sake of the argument that under cl 22(1), classification had a duality of purpose, neither purpose had the object of benefitting the inmate in question. The two purposes were: (1) to maintain security; and (2) to restrict the development programs provided to an inmate to those programs which were "appropriate" in the sense of being consistent with the inmate's classification. Security factors were the considerations which were relevant both to determining an inmate's classification and to determining which development programs were "appropriate" for the inmate having regard to his classification. This is consistent with and is inherent in the nature of classification of inmates. 
Benefit or help to the inmate was not part of the purpose of classification. Any benefit that might flow from a favourable classification was merely a contingent and consequential benefit. As in Amin and Robinson, the correct conclusion in this case is that the exercise of the statutory duty to classify inmates did not also involve the provision of services to inmates within the meaning of s 19 of the AD Act. 
Even if, contrary to my approach and conclusions in respect of ground 4, it were accepted that benefit or help to an inmate was part of the reason why inmates were assigned classifications or why inmates were given the least restrictive classification in the light of security considerations, it would not follow that classification of inmates was providing "services" within s 19. Classification of inmates was a statutory duty and a governmental function. The primary function of classification was maintenance of security. Any purpose of benefitting inmates was at most secondary or subsidiary. Furthermore, inmates had no ability to decide whether to accept or reject their classification. In these circumstances and having regard to the analysis both of the ordinary meaning of "services" and "provide" and the authorities set out in detail above, inmate classification would still not fall within the specific area of social activity identified in s 19 of the AD Act. 
For these reasons, I am of the view that inmate classification should not be found, on the ordinary meaning of the words used in s 19 and having regard to the relevant authorities, to constitute providing "services" to inmates within the meaning of that section. 
Like the determination of a bail application which was considered by Yates J in Robinson v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2012] FCA 770 at  [180], inmate classification is not so much the provision by a public authority of services to an inmate but rather it is the exercise of authority (in this case conferred by the C(AS) Reg) to control inmates and to regulate their liberty and their confinement in a corrective centre. The benefits which may (or may not) flow from a bail decision or a classification decision do not render these activities "services" provided to the persons affected by the decisions. 
It follows that the conclusion of the Tribunal below at [158] that classification of inmates constituted "services" that were provided to inmates was erroneous. The Tribunal's error resulted from: (1) the failure to properly construe and apply s 19 on the bases identified in grounds 2, 3 and 5; and
Consequently, the appeal based on grounds 2, 3, 4 and 5 should be allowed and it should be concluded that classification of inmates did not amount to providing "services" within the meaning of s 19 of the AD Act. 
It was not in dispute that, if the classification of inmates did not amount to providing "services" within the meaning of that section, orders 1 and 2 made by the Tribunal below should be set aside. Order 3 was an order otherwise dismissing the complaint. In the light of the conclusions above, it follows that the Tribunal below should have dismissed the whole of Mr Whiteoak's complaint under s 108(1)(a) of the AD Act. If such an order were made, there is no reason why order 3 made by the Tribunal below should not also be set aside along with orders 1 and 2. 
For these reasons, in my view the orders of the Appeal Panel should be: (1) Leave to appeal is granted in respect of ground 4 of the appellant's grounds of appeal. 
PROF CHESTERMAN, Principal Member: I have the misfortune to differ from the Appeal Panel's decision at [254] in this matter. In brief, my reasons are as follows.
A possible, though by no means inevitable, consequence of receiving a C3 classification is that the inmate concerned will participate in one or more of the 'Inmate Services and Programs' provided by the Commissioner of Corrective Services. According to cl 57 of the current C(AS) Reg (quoted by the Tribunal below at [111]), these services and programs will:
Having regard to section 2A(1)(a) and (d) of the C(AS) Act and cl 22 of the C(AS) Reg (quoted by the Tribunal at [109] and [110]), I consider that these 'services and programs' provided by the Commissioner to some of the inmates of correctional centres in New South Wales are 'services' within the meaning of sections 4 and 19 of the AD Act. If the Commissioner were to withhold, save in 'exceptional circumstances', the benefit of any such services from any inmate who had received a C3 classification, on the ground that he or she belonged to a particular race, I have little doubt that this would constitute unlawful discrimination under section 19(b) of the AD Act.
The question to be determined in this appeal is however, whether the classification process administered by the Commissioner was, in the circumstances of the present case, a 'service'. It is by virtue of this process that, at the relevant time, some inmates were declared eligible (so long as other conditions were also satisfied) to receive the benefits associated with the services and programs provided for in cl 57 of the C(AS) Reg, while other inmates were declared ineligible.
If the classification process (or some comparable process for distinguishing between inmates) did not exist, it seems likely that no inmate at all would have been eligible, to the extent that I have just indicated, to receive these benefits. The primacy that is accorded, for good reasons, to security in determining classifications is enough to confirm this. The classification process therefore operated as a gateway to 'services' provided by the Commissioner, through which some, but not all, inmates might pass. I regard the provision of this 'gateway', in appropriate cases, as a purpose of the classification system, and not merely as 'contingent and consequential' (to quote the phrase employed above at [226]). 
This last observation is corroborated by section 18.1 of the ELP Policy (quoted above at [107]). To my mind, it is quite compatible with the findings by the President that in determining classifications the Commissioner's delegates (a) treated security as the 'overriding' concern and (b) did not give consideration to whether an inmate seeking C3 classification would, if successful at this stage, would also succeed in gaining access to any of the Inmate Services and Programs provided by the Commissioner. But the President's observation, at [109], that the task of classifying inmates involved 'assigning the least restrictive category consistent with the applicable security considerations to an inmate' indicates that security was not the sole concern. It would, in my opinion, be a breach of duty for a delegate of the Commissioner to apply consistently the principle that security was actually the sole concern and accordingly to refuse to grant C3 classification to any inmates, even those who manifestly could be trusted not to abscond and were otherwise entirely qualified to receive this classification.
In IW v City of Perth [1997] HCA 30;  (1997) 191 CLR 1 (discussed above at [163]-[176]), three of the five judges constituting the majority in the High Court were of the opinion that in maintaining a procedure for determining development applications the respondent Council was providing a 'service'. At 23, Dawson and Gaudron JJ said: 'The word "services', in its ordinary meaning is apt to include the administration and enforcement by the City of Perth of the Planning Scheme.' Gummow J, having pointed out at 44 that there was 'no dichotomy here between the discharge of statutory functions and the provision of services to those seeking the discharge of these functions' , went on to say (at 44-45) that 'the Council, as executive organ of the City, was providing services whether it granted or refused a particular application for consent'. The opinion of one of the two dissenting judges was similar: see Toohey J at 28.
Only Brennan CJ and McHugh J held that the process whereby the Council considered applications for approval was not a 'service' provided to applicants. At 18, they said:
The significance, in the present context, of these rulings by Dawson, Gaudron and Gummow JJ is that they demonstrate the following: (a) a formal process under which a governmental authority, exercising powers conferred by statute, makes decisions rendering individuals eligible to obtain specified benefits may constitute a 'service'; and (b) this may be the case even when many of these decisions deny such eligibility to the applicant. 
I acknowledge that the Federal Court's decision in Robinson v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2012] FCA 770 (which unfortunately the Tribunal below did not discuss) may appear to govern the present case and to require a decision in the Commissioner's favour. 
In his discussion of this case (see [193]-[205] above), the President lays emphasis on the similarity between classifying inmates and deciding whether bail should be granted, describing each of them (at [204]) as 'the exercise of government authority, in the operation of the criminal justice system...'. He points out (at [205]) that in Robinson the fact that accused persons might receive the benefit of being freed on bail if their application succeeded was held not to be sufficient to justify the conclusion that the making of bail determinations was a 'service' to those persons. Also at [205] the President interprets the Federal Court's judgment as indicating that 'where the benefit to a person was contingent and consequential and not the purpose of the activities in question, those activities are unlikely to fall within the meaning of "services" in s 19 of the AD Act or similar provisions'.
In my opinion, however, Robinson is distinguishable from the present case for two reasons. First, a decision to grant bail to an accused person, unlike a decision to grant a C3 classification to an inmate, does not constitute a step in rendering the person concerned eligible to receive a 'service' (such as participating in a development program) provided by the decision-making authority itself. The conditions regularly attached to grants of bail, such as a requirement to report regularly to a police station, do not involve the provision of any 'service'. Secondly, the provision of what I have called a 'gateway', in appropriate cases, to 'services' such as participation in a development program must in my opinion be treated as a purpose of the classification system, not merely as 'contingent and consequential'. My arguments in support of these two propositions about the classification system are outlined above.
It is for the foregoing reasons that I have asked, after careful consideration and with a good deal of hesitation, for these dissenting observations to be included in the reasons published by the Appeal Panel.
Dr FIELD, General Member: I agree with the President's reasons and conclusions and I concur in the making of orders in the terms proposed in [239] above. 
APPEAL PANEL: In these circumstances and having regard to the fact that Prof Chesterman is an Australian lawyer, the decision of the Appeal Panel is: (1) in relation to questions other than questions of law in this appeal, the decision of the President and Dr Field by operation of s 57(1) of the Act;
Accordingly, the orders of the Appeal Panel are: (1) Leave to appeal is granted in respect of ground 4 of the appellant's grounds of appeal. 
############# I'm default separator ##########91
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - exercise of discretion -appeal allowed.
The appellant is the owner of premises at 13 Newhaven Avenue Blacktown ("the Premises").
On 8 October 2013, the appellant contracted in writing with the respondent for the respondent to undertake building works at the Premises, including construction of a granny flat, four rooms, one kitchen and one bathroom for a fixed price of $25,000.
The respondent was not relevantly licensed to undertake all the works disclosed in the contract and the work was uninsured.
The appellant paid the respondent $4000 as a deposit and the respondent proceeded with the works. The appellant paid the respondent a total of $6651.
The appellant contended that the works performed by the respondent were defective and refused further payment. The respondent purported to terminate the contract for failure to make progress payments.
The appellant commenced proceedings in the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal on 12 November 2013 in proceedings number HB 13/58679 ("the CTTT Proceedings").
The claim was one involving building claims as defined by s.48Aof the Home Building Act 1989
The proceedings were decided on 1 May 2014 and reasons were published on 29 May 2014 ("the Reasons").
The Reasons reveal that, in the CTTT Proceedings, the Tribunal relevantly made the following findings: (1) In respect of the alleged substandard concrete slab, the appellant has failed to establish that the slab was defective or that rectification of the slab is required: [9] of the Reasons; (2) The vapour barrier was not installed. However as the areas "involved an outbuilding", no vapour barrier was required: [10] of the Reasons; (3) The allegation that the concrete slab was not square is not established: [11] of the Reasons; (4) The allegation that the formwork was defective, causing the slab edge to bow outwards, is not established: [12] of the Reasons; (5) Even if the allegation that the surface of the concrete is not level, was established, the appellant has failed to establish that complete removal is required: [13] of the Reasons; (6) The allegation that the footing on the concrete slab is defective is not established and, even it if had been, the need for complete removal of the slab is not established: [14] of the Reasons; (7) There is no termite protection barrier installed. Such a barrier can be installed and the Tribunal allows the $500 quoted by the appellant: [15] of the Reasons; (8) The allegation that the failure to use a vibrator during the mixing process on the concrete such that the concrete is defective was not established: [16] of the Reasons; (9) The allegation that the reinforcement to the concrete is exposed was established. However, rectification does not require the removal of the slab, but rather rectification can be achieved by cutting back the concrete around the rods and then treating it at a total cost of $90.73, which was allowed: [17] of the Reasons; (10) The allegation that the pipe for the water feed is undersized and defective was not established: [18] of the Reasons; (11) The hairline cracking of the concrete slab is category 1 and needs monitoring and review. It is not considered to be a defect and no orders are required: [19] of the Reasons. (12) The allegation that the external cladding installation is substandard is not established. Rather they are "incomplete works". There is no evidence of any defect. As the contract is "at an end" no amount should be allowed: [20] of the Reasons; (13) The appellant's claim for the costs of the reports is declined as most of the appellant's claims have not been made out; [21] of the Reasons; (14) The email sent after the hearing has been considered and determined to be irrelevant. The Tribunal is not satisfied that the appellant should be refunded his deposit as works have been completed and amounts have been allowed for defects: [22] of the Reasons.
On 12 June 2014, the appellant lodged an appeal within time pursuant to Rule 25(4)(a) of the NCAT Rules.
The appellant challenged the order that the respondent is to pay him $590.73 and sought orders that the respondent pays for the costs of: (1) Removal and rebuilding of the concrete slab; (2) Redoing the plumbing including paying the costs to inspect the sewer pipe work; and (3) Redoing the external cladding.
It is noted that, for the reasons that follow, the Appeal Panel does not proposed to make such orders, but rather, has determined that the matter ought be remitted to the Consumer and Commercial Division, Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) for a rehearing according to law.
In the Notice of Appeal, the Appellant was required to indicate in section 12B of the form whether he was seeking leave to appeal. He stated that he is doing so. The requirement for leave to appeal is dealt with in s 80 of the Act, which relevantly provides:
The decision that the appellant is seeking to appeal was a final decision (see the definitions in s 4(1) of the Act). The appellant can only appeal as of right from the Tribunal's decision on a question of law. Otherwise, leave to appeal is required (s 80(2)(b)).
The appellant seeks leave to appeal on the ground that he has suffered a substantive miscarriage of justice because: (1) The decision was not fair and equitable; and (2) The decision was against the weight of the evidence.
The basis of the appeal is, in short, that the Tribunal failed to accord procedural fairness to the appellant and failed to give adequate reasons for the decision.
On 13 August 2014 the Appeal Panel, constituting Wright J, President and S Westgarth, Deputy President made the following orders for the preparation of the matter for hearing of the appeal: (1) The appellant file and serve any written submission and other material to be relied on before 27 August 2014; (2) The respondent file and serve his reply to appeal, any written submission and other material to be relied upon on or before 10 September 2014; (3) The appellant file and serve any written submissions and other material in reply on or before 17 September 2014.
It is noted that the respondent did not comply with the directions and his submissions were provided a week late, on 17 September 2014. The appellant asserted that the material was provided late, however he did not seek an adjournment in the circumstances and did not assert that there was any material that he could not deal with at the hearing of the appeal.
The Appeal Panel has taken into account the material filed by the respondent in determining the appeal.
In support of his application for leave the appellant, in summary, asserts as follows (11B Notice of Appeal): (1) The Tribunal Member's finding, that the translation of the contract has only minor differences which are not material, cannot be sustained in light of the evidence that on the appellant's version payment need only be made after the works were completed, and on the respondent's version payment was required prior to completion and that the Tribunal was required to make a finding of fact as to which was the correct translation of the contract; (2) The Tribunal's finding that the respondent terminated the contract for failure to make progress payments cannot be sustained in light of ground (1) above. (3) The Tribunal's finding that the appellant had failed to make the required progress payments cannot be sustained in light of the appellant's payments of $3000 and absent a finding of fact in respect of the translation of the contract; (4) The respondent's request for payment for the vinyl cladding was unsustainable in light of the Office of Fair Trading's documents regarding payment for works not performed and in light of s.92 of the HB Act 1989 regarding demands for payment by uninsured builders. (5) The Tribunal erred in stating that the appellant had referred to a concrete slab as being for a barbeque area. The appellant asserts that this was referred to incorrectly in the respondent's expert report and that he was denied procedural fairness in respect of that matter. (6) The Tribunal erred in denying the appellant procedural fairness in respect of the expert evidence more generally, in that the Tribunal Member did not allow the appellant to lead evidence or submit fully in respect of relevant matters; (7) The Tribunal erred in accepting the evidence of the respondent's expert in circumstances where the appellant's expert was present at the hearing; the respondent's expert was not; the appellant wished to lead evidence from his expert; and to cross-examine the respondent's expert, which was denied, in particular; (a) The respondent's expert's opinion that the area (in which is was accepted that there was no vapour barrier installed), did not require a vapour barrier as the building was a "class 10" outbuilding and the Tribunal's finding that it was "a barbeque area" could not be sustained in light of the evidence, in particular the contract in which it describes, on both parties' versions of the translation, one granny flat, four rooms, one kitchen and one bathroom and does not describe a barbeque area. The appellant also submits that it cannot be sustained in light of the Tribunal's finding that the parties "contracted.... for a renovation including a granny flat, four rooms, one kitchen and one bathroom." (b) The Tribunal's finding that although the concrete floor may not be entirely level, that the appellant has failed to demonstrate why it is defective, cannot be sustained in light of the appellant's expert report to the effect that the concrete flooring was unlevelled to more than 10mm and in light of the failure of the Tribunal to allow the appellant to lead evidence from his expert or to cross-examine the respondent's evidence on that issue; (c) The Tribunal's finding that the appellant had failed to establish that the footings were defective such as to require their removal cannot be sustained in light of the Tribunal not questioning the appellant's expert at the hearing and appearing to accept that evidence. (d) The Tribunal's finding that the exposed concert reinforcement requires rectification rather than removal, as set out by the respondent's expert, cannot be sustained in light of the appellant's provision of uncontroverted evidence at that hearing and apparent agreement by all parties that there is no reinforcement to the centre of the slab. (e) The Tribunal's preference for the evidence of the respondent's expert that there was no evidence of the pipe size as recorded by the respondent's expert or that that no evidence was presented as to what the water feed (using the pipe) was for and the reasons for it being defective, cannot be sustained in light of the photo produced by the appellant's expert in evidence showing it to be under 20mm diameter, by his reference to the Australian Standards in that regard and in light of the reference in the contract to the pipes being for hot and cold water; (f) The Tribunal's finding that the appellant had not established any defects in the failure to install a moisture barrier inside the cladding of the external wall lining could not be established in light of the appellant's expert's evidence; (g) The Tribunal failed to take into account the time taken to complete the concreting work, leading to "honeycombing" in the slab, in finding that the appellant had not established that the concrete slab was defective; (h) The Tribunal failed to take into account the need to replace the sewer pipes and the need for further inspection in light of the fact that the respondent was not licensed as a plumber.
Further, in support of the appellant's application for leave, in summary he submitted that the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable on the following grounds (12B Notice of Appeal): (1) The Tribunal member failed to accord procedural fairness to the appellant in not allowing him to question the opinion of the respondent's expert as the respondent's expert was not present at the Tribunal hearing; (2) The Tribunal member failed to accord procedural fairness to the appellant in preferring the opinion of the respondent's expert in circumstances where he had not been cross-examined and the preferable findings were not put to the appellant's expert; (3) The Appellant substantially repeats the particulars set out at paragraph 20(7) above; (4) The Tribunal did not find that there was no reinforcement to the centre of the concrete slab, despite this not being in issue between the parties at the Tribunal hearing. In those circumstances it was not fair and equitable for the Tribunal not to determine that the whole slab required removal.
The appellant also relied on documents provided to the Tribunal on 27 August 2014, setting out the alleged defects.
Despite the appellant's application for leave to appeal, any appeal in respect of an allegation that the Tribunal Member failed to give adequate reasons, is a question of law, in respect of which leave is not required: Pettit v. Dunkley [1971] 1 NSWLR 376; Papps v Police [2000] SASC 183;  (2000) 77 SASR 210; Perkins v County Court of Victoria [2000] VSCA 171;  (2000) 2 VR 246; Byrnes v. Barry [2004] ACTCA 24;  (2004) 150 A Crim R 471
Similarly, a failure to accord procedural fairness is an error of law in respect of which leave is not required. As Deane J said, in Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond  [1990] HCA 33;  (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 367:
The respondent lodged a Reply to Appeal dated 27 June 2014 on 3 July 2014 in which he asserts that: (1) He disagrees with the appellant's opinions expressed in the Notice of Appeal; (2) The translation of the agreement was cross-checked and discussed at the hearing before the Tribunal; (3) The appellant owes the Respondent $439, which is the "factual foundation" for terminating the agreement; (4) "An agreement is different to a contract". The respondent refers the Appeal Panel to his documents submitted at the hearing before the Tribunal in May 2014; and (5) In the hearing, the Tribunal member has investigated, questioned and discussed all aspects of the case.
The respondent accepts the Tribunal's order made on 29 May 2014 and supports the Tribunal's orders, full reasons and decision.
In his Submissions dated 10 September 2014, but provided on 17 September 2014, the respondent submitted in summary as follows: (1) The two contracts, as interpreted, contained "small" differences, which were not material; (2) Although the Tribunal Member did not deal with the law in respect of which the contract was said to have been terminated, he was entitled to find as a matter of fact, after hearing the evidence, that the contract was terminated; (3) The submissions in respect of the Office of Fair Trading are irrelevant; (4) The Tribunal was not dealing with the refund of any monies said to be owing to the appellant; (5) The Tribunal was entitled to come to the findings it did in respect of the expert evidence, is entitled to inform itself as it sees fit and to apply appropriate weight or prefer one expert over another, and the fact that the respondent's expert was not present for cross-examination has no bearing on this question, so long as procedural fairness is afforded to the parties; (6) The Tribunal Member gave reasons why he preferred the respondent's expert evidence at paragraph [7] of the Reasons and the Tribunal Member is not obliged to address and reconcile every contradiction or inconsistency in the evidence: citing Soulemezis v. Dudley (Holdings) Pty Limited Pty Ltd (1987) 1 NSWLR; (7) Collins v. Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 deals with the Tribunal's duty to publish reasons and the respondent relevantly accepts that a substantial miscarriage of justice may have been suffered where there is a "significant possibility or a chance which was fairly open that a different of more favourable result would have been achieved for the appellant had the relevant circumstances not occurred" and that where there has been a denial of procedural fairness, the decision below can be taken as not being "fair and reasonable".
The hearing by the Appeal Panel took place on 23 September 2014.
Both parties were to be assisted at the hearing by Mandarin interpreters. However, for reasons unknown to the Appeal Panel no such interpreters were available.
After questioning from the Appeal Panel, the parties made it clear that they wished to proceed in the absence of the interpreters. The appellant made further oral submissions in English in line with his written material and the respondent made it clear in English that he was content to rely on his written submissions. It is noted that the respondent's written submissions were prepared by a solicitor.
Both parties were able to make themselves understood to the Appeal Panel and advised the Appeal Panel that they sufficiently understood the proceedings.
The Appeal Panel proceeded to hear the matter on that basis and to determine the appeal.
Subsequent to the hearing, on 1 October 2014, the appellant attempted to put further material before the Appeal Panel. Because both parties had submitted that they were content to rely on the material presented on 23 September and because the material was provided after the matter had been reserved for decision and without any consent from the respondent, the Appeal Panel determined not to take this material into account and not to read it. In light of the Appeal Panel's decision to remit the matter for hearing, no prejudice can be occasioned to the appellant by reason of the Appeal Panel's decision not to take this material into account.
As the respondent submitted, the hearing was conducted in the following circumstances: (1) Both parties attended the hearing; (2) The parties had the benefit of an interpreter, both to interpret the question asked by the parties and/or the Tribunal and to organize the interpretation of the Building Contract; (3) The parties gave evidence and provided expert reports to the tribunal; (4) The Tribunal published its reasons; (5) The Tribunal Member preferred the evidence of the respondent's expert; and (6) The Tribunal made findings of fact after the evidence was heard.
However, that submission does not address what is, in the Appeal Panel's view, the principle ground of the appeal, and one which if established would require the appeal to be allowed. The appellant submits that he was precluded by the Tribunal Member from addressing the apparent contradictions or inconsistencies in the evidence prior to finding against him. Indeed, nowhere in any of the submissions provided by the respondent is there any suggestion rebutting the Appellant's claims that he was so precluded.
The duty to accord a person procedural fairness arises because the power involved is one which may "destroy, defeat or prejudice a person's rights, interests or legitimate expectations": Annetts v McCann [1990] HCA 57;  (1990) 170 CLR 596 at 598; [1990] HCA 57;  97 ALR 177;  (1990) 65 ALJR 167;  21 ALD 651. The content of the duty in a particular case depends upon the circumstances of the case and the nature of the power being exercised: Kioa and Ors v West [1985] HCA 81;  (1985) 159 CLR 550 at 585 and at 612-615; [1985] HCA 81;  (1985) 62 ALR 321;  (1986) 60 ALJR 113;  9 ALN N28.
In Kioa Gibbs CJ stated that "if the rules of natural justice were applicable, the appellants were entitled to a fair opportunity to correct or contradict any relevant material prejudicial to them." Mason J also acknowledged that a fundamental rule of natural justice required that a party "is entitled to know the case sought to be made against him and to be given an opportunity of replying to it", and "if in fact the decision-maker intends to reject the application by reference to some consideration personal to the applicant on the basis of information obtained from another source which has not been dealt with by the applicant in his application there may be a case for saying that procedural fairness requires that he be given an opportunity of responding to the matter". Brennan J similarly observed that "[a] person whose interests are likely to be affected by an exercise of power must be given an opportunity to deal with relevant matters to his interests which the repository of the power proposes to take into account in deciding upon its exercise."
Although Kioa was determined in the context of the exercise of ministerial power, a fundamental requirement of procedural fairness is that a party subject to the possibility of an adverse determination to be made on the basis of particular documents or material, should know the case against it, and relevantly in this case, be afforded an opportunity to respond.
In Collins v. Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17, the Appeal Panel comprising of Wright J, President, S Westgarth, Deputy President and M Harrowell, Principal Member, commencing at [40], held in respect of hearings before the Tribunal with respect to matters of procedural fairness, that s 38(5)(c) of the NCAT Act requires that the Tribunal "take such measures as are reasonably practicable ... to ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings": Collins at [40].
Paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Reasons are in the following terms:
In circumstances where lack of detail was the ground for rejection of the applicant's expert evidence, where the appellant's expert was present at the hearing, and where the appellant wished not only to provide further detail from his expert witness but also to cross-examine the respondent's expert (matters which the respondent does not appear to dispute), the Tribunal has not, in the view of the Appeal Panel, taken appropriate steps to ensure that the appellant had a reasonable opportunity to present his case.
In doing so, a substantial miscarriage of justice may have been suffered as the Appeal Panel finds, that there is a "significant possibility or a chance which was fairly open" that the appellant may have achieved a more favourable result in respect of either one or more of his individual claims. For example, had the appellant been able to pursue the details of his claim with respect to the removal of the concrete slab, there is a significant possibility that his claim would have been significantly enhanced.
Although, in light of the decision of the Appeal Panel in respect of the failure to accord procedural fairness to the appellant, it is not strictly necessary to decide this issue in allowing the appeal, the Appeal Panel also finds that the Tribunal Member failed in her duty to give adequate reasons.
In Collins, commencing at [47], the Appeal Panel set out a number of relevant principles with respect to the Tribunal's duty to give reasons, but more relevantly in this case, what those reasons must include, as follows:
In the Appeal Panel's view, the Reasons do not include matters in respect of the findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based, the Tribunal's understanding of the applicable law, or alternatively the reasoning processes that lead the Tribunal to the conclusions it made such as to allow the appellant to prosecute his appeal.
For example, the Tribunal Member, having found that the work was unlicensed and uninsured (at [4]), made no finding as to what impact, if any, this had in respect of the respondent's claim for payment. The respondent's case that the contract had been terminated depended on there being a valid claim for payment of the progress payments. The Tribunal Member made no findings of fact in support of her conclusion that the contract was at an end (at [20]), that is that it had been validly terminated. It is insufficient for the appellant's purposes to simply remark that the respondent terminated for failure to make progress payments (at [5]). It was necessary in the circumstances to make factual findings as to whether the respondent, being uninsured and unlicensed, as in a position to demand payment, which on the appellant's case was contrary to s.92 HB Act.
S. 92 of the HB Act (in conjunction with the Home Building Regulations 2004) provides as follows in respect of works with a contract price of more than $20,000 (which this appears to be):
In those circumstances the Tribunal Member was obliged to make a finding as to whether or not the demand for payment by the respondent was such that the contract could validly have been brought to an end in the way that it was. Furthermore, the findings at [20] and [22] of the Reasons require a finding of fact in respect of whether or not there has been a valid contract and/or a valid termination of the contract.
Accordingly, in the circumstances of this case and taking into account the nature of the jurisdiction being exercised, the particular subject matter of the decision and the fact that giving detailed reasons is not cost free, the Appeal Panel concludes that in a contested home building claim such as this one, the Tribunal Member's duty to record reasons has not been adequately discharged.
As the Appeal Panel has come to the view that the two broad grounds relied on by the appellant are questions of law, then the appellant does not require leave. Further, for the reasons referred to above, the Appeal Panel is of the view that the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision of the Tribunal was not fair and equitable.
Where, as in this case, there is a significant possibility that the appellant may have lost a chance of achieving a better outcome than occurred by reason of the denial of procedural fairness, there is a miscarriage of justice: see albeit in the criminal context, Mraz v The Queen [1955] HCA 59;  (1955) 93 CLR 493 at 514 and Gallagher v R [1986] HCA 26;  (1986) 160 CLR 392 at 399 and 402.
If the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the applicant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on those grounds, then the Panel may grant leave under s 80(2)(b) of the Act if it considers whether it should exercise its discretion to grant leave to appeal under s 80(2)(b) of the Act.
By analogy, the relevant principles to be applied when deciding whether to grant leave to appeal has recently been considered in Nakad v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force  [2014] NSWCATAP 10. As set out in Collins at [84], the appellant must demonstrate something more than that the primary decision maker was arguably wrong in the conclusion arrived at or that there was a bona fide challenge to an issue of fact: BHP Billiton Ltd v Dunning [2013] NSWCA 421 at  [19] and the authorities cited there, Nakad v Commissioner of Police, NSW Police Force [2014] NSWCATAP 10 at  [45], that it involves questions of public importance or matters of administration or policy which might have general application; or where a factual error that was unreasonably arrived at and clearly mistaken, or otherwise where the decision was not fair and reasonable.
Here there was a denial of procedural fairness in the way in which the proceedings were conducted, especially where the appellant was denied a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have his submissions considered, in breach of s 38(5)(c) of the Act. The Appeal Panel finds that, in the circumstances the decision was not fair and equitable within s 12(1)(a).
Furthermore, the Appeal Panel finds that there is material in the appellant's evidence to indicate that had the appellant been accorded procedural fairness, either by allowing him to challenge the respondent's expert or to examine his own expert in more detail, then this may have led to a more favourable result for him. In those circumstances, the Appeal Panel is satisfied that the appellant might have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice.
In those circumstances, the Appeal Panel would, if leave was required, exercise its discretion to grant leave to appeal and allow the appeal.
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) The appeal is allowed. (2) The matter is remitted to the Tribunal Consumer and Commercial Division, Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) for hearing in accordance with law.
############# I'm default separator ##########92
APPEAL - residential tenancy - proper construction of s 26(1) of theResidential Tenancies Act 2010 - excessive rent order - reduction by thelandlord of goods services or facilities provided with the residential premises- afterresidential agreement entered into the landlord installed rainwatertanks on the outside patio and up against and under the bedroomwindow.
The appellants are tenants of a residential property at Frenchs Forrest. On 4 June 2014, the Tribunal below made the following orders in regard to the appellants' application for orders under sections 44(1)(b), 45, 65(1)(a) and 65(5) of the Residential Tenancy Act 2010 (RT Act):
On 17 June 2014, the appellants made an application for leave to appeal against the decision of the Tribunal and if leave was granted they sought to appeal, on the merits, the decision of the Tribunal in regard to the second order it made.
Subsection 80(1) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NCAT Act) makes provision for making an appeal against an 'internally appealable decision' to the Appeal Panel. There is no dispute that the decision from which the appellants seek to appeal is an 'internally appealable decision.' 
Subsection 80(2)(b) of the NCAT Act provides that an internal appeal may be made as of right on any question of law, or with the leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other grounds. However, where an appeal is sought from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, as is the case in this appeal, clause 12(1) of Schedule 4 of the NCAT Act requires the appellant to obtain the leave of the Appeal Panel in order to appeal. 
The appellants' application for leave to appeal was heard on 2 September 2014. At the conclusion of that hearing the Appeal Panel found that it was satisfied that the appellants had established that they had suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice in that the decision of the Tribunal below was, in part, not fair and equitable and against the weight of the evidence. On the basis of this finding the Appeal Panel made the following orders: 
The powers of the Appeal Panel in determining an internal appeal is set out in section 81 of the NCAT Act as follows:
We have now considered all the material before the Appeal Panel and for the reasons set out below we have allowed the appeal in part in regard to the appellants' claim for an excessive rent order due to a reduction or withdrawal by the respondent of the outdoor patio and bedroom facilities through the installation of rainwater tanks on the premises after the residential agreement between the parties was entered into.
It is convenient to first deal with the relevant terms of the residential tenancy agreement between the parties and the premises the subject of that agreement.
The agreement was for a 12 month period, commencing on 24 January 2012. The rent payable was $3,693.45 per month. The agreement provided that no more than three people were to reside in the premises. At the time the appellants entered the agreement and took possession of the property the appellants were expecting their first child, which was known to Ms Leach, the respondent's agent.
The agreement set out the residential address of the premises in Frenchs Forest. The agreement stated that the premises included:
The agreement also noted what the premises did not include. These were:
At the leave hearing, Ms Leach explained that the property, a two storey suburban house, had recently been renovated and divided into two separate premises (an upper level and lower level premises). The appellants leased the upper level and the lower level remained unoccupied as at the date of the leave hearing.
Entry to the upper level of the property is through a front door located on the lower level of the property that faces the road and is adjacent to the driveway. Immediately to the right of this front door is another door, which is the front door of the lower level premises of the property.
In their application before the Consumer and Commercial Division, the appellants sought compensation, rental reductions and orders for repairs, due to a number of specific alleged breaches by the respondent of the terms of the tenancy agreement and the Act. For the purpose of this appeal the alleged breaches were described by the appellants in their original claim (i.e. as at 7 March 2014) as follows:
As noted above, the Tribunal found that it was not satisfied, to the civil standard of proof, that the 'grounds required to make the orders sought' by the appellants in regard to the abovementioned matters had been established. In the reasons for decision the Tribunal made the following findings of fact in regard to each of the above matters in the appellants' claim:
In their Notice of Appeal, the appellants identified the following as their grounds of appeal:
In the annexure to their Notice of Appeal the appellants reiterated the basis on which each item of their claim had been made. This included a summary of the evidence on which they relied, the applicable sections of the RT Act and the orders sought in regard to each item of their claim. A copy of the documentary evidence and written submissions that were before the Tribunal at first instance were also attached. This included the evidence and written submissions of the respondent.
In her Reply, the respondent said she supported the original orders made by the Tribunal at first instance. 
As the issues relating to the installation of the rainwater tanks differ to those concerning the alleged 'urgent repairs' it is convenient to deal with these separately.
As noted in paragraph 14 above, the appellants asserted that prior to entering the residential tenancy agreement, the respondent deliberately misrepresented or concealed the fact that the local council had approved her plans to install a large rainwater tank on the property. This they asserted to be a breach of section 26 of the RT Act and they sought an order for its removal and an order for a reduction in rent, pursuant to sections 43 and 44 of the RT Act, from the time the rainwater tanks were installed and up to the time they were removed. 
As noted in paragraph 15 above, the Tribunal Member in his reasons for decision, dismissed the appellants' claim on the basis that the installation of rainwater tanks were not a 'material fact' falling within subsection 26(1) of the RT Act and the appellants having been given verbal consent to use the entire back yard had overcome the appellants' concern about their social activities being impeded. 
Subsection 26(1) of the RT Act is in the following terms:
As noted by the Tribunal Member in his reasons for decision, clause 7 of the Residential Tenancies Regulation 2010
However, in our view, on its proper construction, subsection 26(1) is not limited to matters falling with clause 7 of the RT Regulation. That section is made up of two parts. The first part applies any 'statement, representation or promise' that is made by a landlord or the landlord's agent to induce a tenant to enter into a lease, which the landlord or landlord agent knows to be false, misleading or deceptive. The second part applies where a landlord or the landlord's agent induces a tenant to enter a lease by 'knowingly concealing a material fact prescribed by the regulations' (i.e. those matters set out in clause 7 of the RT Regulation). 
As the appellants did not point assert that they were induced to enter the residential tenancy agreement by a particular statement or representation by the respondent or her agent, which the respondent or her agent knew to be false, misleading or deceptive, we have not considered this aspect of subsection 26(1) any further. For completeness, we note that there was no evidence before the Tribunal at first instance as to when the respondent decided to install the rainwater tanks on the outdoor patio area of the premises occupied by the appellants and not in accordance with the plans approved by the local council. We also note, there was no dispute that at the time the appellants entered into the residential tenancy agreement there was no mention of the rainwater tanks being installed on that section of the property the appellants were to occupy. This fact alone would not constitute a breach of section 26. 
Accordingly, we find that the appellants failed to establish the respondent's alleged breach of section 26. 
As noted above, in his reasons for decision, the Tribunal Member gave no consideration to the appellants' claim for a reduction of rent under section 44 of the RT Act. That claim was based on the rainwater tanks resulting in a 'significant loss of outdoor space' and the 'loss of a bedroom due to the noise.' Instead of considering the material before him and the relevant provisions of the RT Act, the Tribunal Member appears to have approached this aspect of the appellants' claim only on the basis that the respondent's oral offer of allowing the appellants access to the whole of the back yard. That is, despite the appellants' rejection of the oral offer and continuing to press their claim, the Tribunal Member appears to have determined on the claim on the basis that the oral offer provided an appropriate resolution to the dispute. In our view, if this is correct, the Tribunal Member erred in the exercise of his jurisdiction.
Section 43 of the RT Act relevantly provides: 
Section 44 of the RT Act sets out a tenant's remedy for excessive rent. That section relevantly provides:
There is no dispute about when the rainwater tanks were installed (i.e. on 7 February 2014, two weeks after the appellants took possession of the premises). They were installed by the respondent's workmen on the outdoor patio space against the back wall of the upper level premises occupied by the appellants and directly under the window of the bedroom used by the appellants. The tanks were 2100 mm long, 1800 mm high and 700 mm wide and on the basis of the photographs tendered by the appellants were clearly visible from inside the bedroom. 
As noted above, on 17 February 2014, the appellants first wrote to the respondent seeking a reduction of rent on the basis of the respondent having reduced 'goods, services or facilities' that were provided with the premises occupied by the appellants. In their written submissions, provided to the Tribunal at first instance, the appellants described the effect of the installation of the rainwater tanks as follows:
The respondent did not challenge the appellants' evidence in regard to the size and location of the rainwater tanks and the impact they had on the outdoor patio area and the bedroom. However, she did dispute the appellants' assertion about the level of noise from the tanks when it was raining. She asserted that their claim was unreasonable as there is noise everywhere when it is raining. 
In our view, the appellants' photographs show that the rainwater tanks had significant visual and physical impact on the outdoor patio facilities and the bedroom of the premises occupied by the appellants. 
Given the location of the rainwater tanks, we also find that there was no basis not to accept the appellants' evidence about noise within the bedroom from water entering into the tanks. The tanks were empty and were fed from the roof of the premises, through a pipe running against the side of the bedroom window, into the top of the tanks. The fall of the water into the tank would have been considerable and causing a loss of amenity of the bedroom.
Accordingly, we find that the appellants' did provide sufficient evidence to establish their claim for an order under subsection 44(1)(b) of the RT Act. That is, we find that the appellants have established that, from the time the rainwater tanks were installed by the respondent, the rent payable under their residential tenancy agreement was excessive because the rainwater tanks reduced the their amenity and use of the agreed accessible outdoor patio area and a bedroom of the premises. As we have noted, not long after the rainwater tanks were installed the appellants gave the respondent written notice of their claim for loss and reduction of facilities and requested a reduction of rent in accordance with subsection 43(1) of the RT Act. 
The appellants have sought a 20% reduction in respect of loss of the outdoor facilities and a 5% reduction for noise. 
As noted above, subsection 44(5) of the RT Act does not support a simple percentage approach to determining the extent to which the rent payable is excessive. Consideration is to be given to matters such as comparable rents, the state of repair of the premises, the accommodation and amenities provided and the fittings, appliances and facilities provided with the premises.
In this regard Ms Leach, the respondent's agent, informed the Appeal Panel that the rent payable by the appellants under the agreement was comparable to other leased premises in the area. That is, it was an appropriate level of rent for premises of the same size and condition. The condition Ms Leach explained was that of premises that had been recently fully renovated. On the basis of our findings that the installation of the rainwater tanks, after the appellants entered into possession of the premises, have reduced the appellants' use and amenity of the agreed outdoor patio and the bedroom, we find that an appropriate reduction in rent is $350.00 per month. That is, the rent payable from 8 February 2014 to the end of the agreement is $3,343.45 per month (i.e. $3,693.45 - $350.00). 
As noted above, prior to lodging their claim with the Tribunal below, the appellants wrote to the respondent's agent requesting she rectify the 'urgent repairs' specified in their claim. At the time of the hearing the respondent had attended to alleged 'urgent repairs' in relation to the stove, the hall light, the hot water, the pelmet and the wooden flooring. As a consequence, the appellants did not press their application for orders under section 65 of the RT Act that the respondent undertake these repairs. 
However, the appellants' still pressed their claim for an order under subsection 44(1)(b) of the RT Act that the rent payable under the residential tenancy agreement was excessive during the period the respondent took to undertake the alleged 'urgent repairs.' That is, the appellants alleged that during the period the stove, the hall light, the hot water, the pelmet and the wooden flooring were unattended to by the respondent there was a reduction of those particular 'goods, services or facilities' that were provided with the residential premises.
As noted above, the Tribunal at first instance found that these repairs 'were carried out in a timely manner' after the appellants gave notice of their concerns. The Tribunal appears to have considered the matter in regard to these items no further. 
The appellants contend that the Tribunal's finding that the time taken by the respondent to undertake the repairs was wrong. They contended that given the nature of the requested repairs the time taken to attend to them was unreasonable.
In our view, the findings of the Tribunal Member in this regard were open to it on the material it had before the Tribunal. In this respect we note the respondent's written submissions before the Tribunal at first instance set out an explanation as to why matters took as long as they did to repair. In some instances, the appellants were unavailable when the relevant serviceman came, or planned to the premises. 
In light of our finding that it was open to the Tribunal Member to make the finding he did in regard to the time taken to undertake the repairs to the stove, the hall light, the hot water, the pelmet and the wooden flooring, we have considered this issue no further. Nor is it necessary for us to consider whether the repairs requested by the appellant were 'urgent repairs' as defined in section 62 of the RT Act.
However, the question remains as to whether the appellants have established their claim for an order under subsection 44(1)(b) of the RT Act that the rent payable under their residential lease agreement was excessive because of a reduction of 'good, services or facilities' (i.e. the stove, the hall light, the hot water, the pelmet and the wooden flooring) during the time they were not attended to. In support of their claim the appellants largely relied on the assertions as noted in paragraph 14 above. These, in our view, went no further than identifying the matters for which repairs were sought and the time it took for them to be completed. 
In the absence of any evidence as to how the respondent's conduct in attending to the repair of these matters was a 'reduction or withdrawal' of 'goods, services and facilities', the appellants' claim could not succeed. That is, if 'goods, services and facilities' are reduced or withdrawn, a tenant is not thereby instantly entitled to a rent reduction. Factors relevant to determining whether an order for rent reduction should be made includes:
In our view, having regard to the abovementioned factors and the material before the Tribunal and the Appeal Panel, the nature of the alleged 'urgent items' were not such to warrant the making of an order under subsection 44(1)(b) of the RT Act, especially as the Tribunal found that they had been repaired or replaced within a reasonable time. 
Accordingly, although the reasoning of the Tribunal at first instance is unclear, we find that the Tribunal did not err in its conclusion that the appellants claim in regard to the alleged 'urgent items' of the stove, the hall light, the hot water, the pelmet and the wooden flooring was not established.
This leaves the appellant's claim in regard to the outdoor light. 
Again, there was no dispute that the appellants did not have any access to an outdoor light when accessing their front door. There was at all times an outdoor light on the wall at the front of the property next to the front door to the lower level premises of the property. However, the appellants did not have access to the switch for that light. If they were given access to that switch, or provided with another switch to that light, the appellants would have outdoor lighting when accessing their front door. 
Ms Leach for the respondent informed the Appeal Panel that the outdoor light on the property was a sensor light, but not working - even as at 2 September 2014. Why it was not working was not explained. 
In any event, the question before the Tribunal at first instance was whether the appellants established their claim in regard to the outdoor light. 
The appellants contended that the respondent's failure to provide them access to the existing outdoor light was a breach of the respondent's general obligations under sections 52 and 63 of the RT Act. These sections relevantly provide as follows:
While we understand the concerns of the appellants, they have not pointed to any statutory obligation on the respondent concerning the safety of the premises and the requirement of an outdoor light. Furthermore, as the outdoor light is not located on the premises the subject of the residential tenancy agreement, it is difficult to see how the respondent can be found to have breached her general obligation to maintain the leased premises in a reasonable state of repair. 
On this basis the appellants' claim in regard to the outdoor light was not established. This includes the appellants' claim for an order the respondent be required to repair the light (see subsection 65(2) of the RT Act) and an order that the rent payable under the residential agreement is excessive (i.e. a reduction in rent - see subsection 44(1)(b) of the RT Act). 
Again, although the reasoning of the Tribunal at first instance is unclear, we find that the Tribunal did not err in its conclusion that the appellants' claim in regard to the alleged 'urgent item' repair to the outdoor light was not established. At the same time, it would appear that this aspect of the dispute of the parties could be easily fixed by the respondent making the existing sensor light operational as that light is positioned to provide light to the entrances into the lower level premises and the upper level premises of the property. 
On the basis of our findings in regard to the respondent's installation of the rainwater tanks, the appropriate order is to allow the appellants' appeal in part, set aside order 2 of the Tribunal at first instance and make an order in substitution thereof that pursuant to subsection 44(1)(b) of the RT Act that the rental payable under the residential tenancy agreement between the parties is excessive and is to be reduced by $350 per month, from the 8th of February 2014 until the end of the agreement, or a period of twelve months, whichever is the earlier.
As a result of our finding, the appellants have paid around $3,675 in excessive rent from 8 February 2014 up to 24 November 2014, when the last amount of rent was due and payable under the residential lease agreement (10 months x $350 plus 15 days from 8 February to 23 February). However, a final order in this regard should not be made until the parties have had an opportunity to make written submissions as to the correct amount of overpayment by the appellants since 8 February 2014. 
Accordingly, the Appeal Panel ORDERS that:
############# I'm default separator ##########93
APPEAL - Civil and Administrative Tribunal (NSW) - whether jurisdiction tomake orders - question of law - no jurisdiction - proceduralfairness - noutility in remitting proceedings other than to consider transfer
This is an internal appeal from the decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal made on 10 February 2014 ordering that Mr Brian Tedman and Mrs Janelle Tedman were entitled to recover $23,821 from Mr David Falzon, trading as the Tilers Floor and Wall Specialists, for defective waterproofing work.
Mr and Mrs Tedman were the applicants in proceedings commenced in the former Consumer, Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (CTTT) in December 2012 and are the respondents to this appeal. Mr Falzon was the respondent to the original claim and is the appellant.
This claim has a long history. Mr and Mrs Tedman obtained orders against Mr Falzon on 13 September 2013 following an uncontested hearing at which Mr Falzon did not appear. On application by Mr Falzon, the CTTT set aside the decision and directed that there be a re-hearing. On 1 January 2014, the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal (the Tribunal) was established and by cl 7 of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
The parties were provided with reasons for decision on 9 April 2014 and on 6 May 2014 Mr Falzon filed an appeal. 
The claim which is the subject of the orders arose out of the supply of waterproofing services by Mr Falzon to Mr and Mrs Tedman on or about 3 September 2008. Prior to providing these services, Mr Falzon submitted a quotation to provide tiling services, including waterproofing. Mr and Mrs Tedman did not proceed with the tiling and made alternative arrangements with another supplier. Importantly, Mr Falzon entered into a contract to perform the waterproofing only and on 3 September 2008, he invoiced Mr and Mrs Tedman $1000 for these services. He provided a "certificate of waterproofing" to Mr Tedman as owner-builder. These matters are not in dispute.
Four years later, Mr and Mrs Tedman filed an application with the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal (CTTT) dated 20 December 2012. 
Procedural directions were made by the Tribunal for the conduct of this appeal and submissions were made by Mr Falzon and lodged with the Tribunal on 3 November 2014, but apparently not received by Mr and Mrs Tedman until the day before the appeal. The issue of whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction to make the orders on 10 February 2014 was raised for the first time in these submissions. 
There is significant dispute between Mr Falzon and Mr and Mrs Tedman about whether there was compliance with directions made by the CTTT and by this Tribunal. The application, including the appeal, was plagued by non-compliance with directions and confusion about service of documents, principally on Mr Falzon's part; however, many of the key factual matters were not in dispute.
Having regard to the submissions of the parties and the critical questions for determination by the Appeal Panel were whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear and determine the issues between the parties, and if the Tribunal is vested with jurisdiction, whether Mr Falzon was denied procedural fairness by the Tribunal in proceeding with the hearing in his absence. Mr Falzon raised a number of further issues, which the Appeal Panel determined were not questions of law. The late notice of the jurisdictional issue itself raised procedural fairness issues.
The Appeal Panel decided that the appeal should be allowed and the decision set aside. Our reasons follow. 
Mr and Mrs Tedman made their original claim in the General Division of the CTTT as a consumer claim under the Consumer Claims Act 1998 (NSW) (the Consumer Claims Act).
The Consumer Claims Act provides that the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction to hear and determine a consumer claim if the cause of action giving rise to the claim first accrued more than three years before the date on which the claim was lodged (s 7(4)(a)).
Relevantly Mr and Mrs Tedman completed a General Division Application form dated 20 December 2012 and answered a series of questions concerning jurisdiction on the form: "Check these before submitting your application: Are you making the application within the time limit? (refer to No 5 in the Guidelines)." Mr and Mrs Tedman answered "NO." The guidelines refer to the three-year time limit imposed by the Consumer Claims Act. 
As the matter was outside the three-year time limit imposed by the Consumer Claims Act, the matter was transferred to the Home Building Division and proceeded before the Tribunal under the Home Building Act 1989 (NSW) (the Home Building Act). The limitation period for claims made under the Home Building Act at the relevant time was seven years from the date of the contract.
The Home Building Act provides for the regulation of residential building and specialist work, the resolution of building disputes and statutory warranties in respect of residential building work. 
Section 18B of the Home Building Act provides:
Section 3(1) relevantly provides that "residential building work" means any work involved in the making of alterations or additions to a dwelling but "does not include work that is declared by the regulations to be excluded from this definition."
Regulation 9 of the Home Building Regulation 2004 provides that "any work (other than specialist work) the reasonable market cost of the labour and materials involved in which does not exceed $1,000 (inclusive of GST)" is excluded from the definition of residential building work. "Specialist work" is defined in s 3(1) of the Home Building Act and does not include waterproofing work.
Part 3A deals with the resolution of building disputes and claims. Division 4 sets out the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in relation to building claims. Under section 48K of the Home Building Act "the Tribunal has jurisdiction to hear and determine any building claim brought before it in accordance with this Part in which the amount claimed does not exceed $500,000 (or any other higher or lower figure prescribed by the regulations)." Section 48L provides that the Tribunal is to be "chiefly responsible for resolving building claims." "Building claim" is defined in s 3(1) to mean, relevantly, a claim for "the payment of a specified sum of money...that arises from a supply of building goods or services" which in turn means "goods or services supplied for or in connection with the carrying out of residential building work or specialist work."
Thus, where the reasonable market cost of the labour and materials, including GST, does not exceed $1000, the statutory warranties in s 18B do not apply and the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the claim. 
Under subs 80(2)(b) of the CAT Act an internal appeal may be made as of right on any question of law but with the leave of the Appeal Panel on any other grounds. Relevantly, cl 12 of Schedule 4 of the CAT Act provides that the Appeal Panel may grant leave to appeal in respect of a decision made by the Consumer and Commercial Divisions but only if satisfied that the appellant may have suffered a "substantial miscarriage of justice" because the decision was not fair and equitable, against the weight of evidence or significant new evidence is available that was not available at the hearing. 
In determining an internal appeal, the Appeal Panel has broad powers under s 81 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act (the CAT Act) and may make such orders as it "considers appropriate in light of its decision" on the appeal. Those orders include, but are not limited to orders that the appeal be allowed or dismissed, the decision under review be confirmed, affirmed or varied, the decision under appeal be quashed or set aside, the decision under appeal be quashed or set aside for another decision to be substituted or that the whole or part of the case be reconsidered by the Tribunal, either with or without further evidence, according to the directions of the Appeal Panel. Relevantly, s 81(2) provides,
The Appeal Panel may also decide to deal with the appeal by way of a new hearing and permit new evidence, in addition to or in substitution for, the evidence heard by the Tribunal at first instance (s 80(3) of the CAT Act).
Mr Falzon set out five grounds in his notice of appeal. First, he contended that the Tribunal erred in finding that he should pay the compensation sum ordered. He gave no other particulars for this ground. Secondly, he contended that the Tribunal erred in finding there was no appearance by him at the hearing and, thirdly, in finding that it was in the interests of justice that the hearing proceed in his absence. Fourthly, he contended that the Tribunal erred in finding that the waterproofing membrane failure and consequential damage was due to a failure on his part to supply the waterproofing service in a proper and workmanlike manner and, fifthly, that the materials used by him were faulty and not suitable for purpose. 
In his written submission filed prior to the hearing, Mr Falzon contended that while he had provided a quotation to cover both the waterproofing and tiling work, Mr and Mrs Tedman did not contract him to undertake tiling work. He undertook the waterproofing in anticipation of doing the tiling but was not retained for any further work. He invoiced Mr and Mrs Tedman $1000 for the waterproofing. He could not be responsible for any damage because he did not complete the tiling work. Mr Falzon contended the Tribunal fell into error as it determined the issues between the parties when it had no jurisdiction to do so as the work performed was not residential building work for the purposes of the Home Building Act. Mr Falzon further contended that he had fully intended to defend the matter at the hearing on 10 February 2014 but attended the incorrect venue and therefore arrived after the end of the hearing. The Tribunal erred in failing to allow him to defend the matter.
Mr and Mrs Tedman contended that there was no error of law by the Tribunal. The hearing was due to commence at 9:15am, the Member delayed the hearing then proceeded in Mr Falzon's absence when he did not arrive. Given the history of non-appearance by Mr Falzon it was reasonable for the Tribunal to proceed with the hearing. There was sufficient evidence for the Tribunal to conclude Mr Falzon's workmanship and/or materials were faulty, causing the water damage. Mr and Mrs Tedman accepted that the cost of the services and materials supplied by Mr Falzon did not exceed $1000. They did not make any submission about whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear and determine their claim. 
Mr Falzon sought orders that the decision be set aside, that he be permitted access to the premises to conduct an inspection, that he be permitted to file and serve evidence and that the matter be listed for a new hearing. Mr and Mrs Tedman requested that the appeal be dismissed.
The threshold issue for determination is whether the Tribunal had jurisdiction to hear and determine the matter on 10 February 2014. The nature and extent of the Tribunal's jurisdiction and whether it had power to make an order under legislation is a question of law. It is clear the Tribunal has jurisdiction to determine jurisdiction (Griffin v Ingram [2014] NSWCATAP 5 at 16 per Wright, President). If the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction, that is the end of the matter.
If the Appeal Panel rejects this contention and finds there was jurisdiction for the Tribunal to make the order, Mr Falzon nonetheless contends that the order should still be set aside on the grounds that he was denied procedural fairness in the circumstances of the case. He did not have the opportunity to defend the claim as the Tribunal unfairly proceeded in his absence. 
The third issue raised by Mr Falzon was that the Tribunal erred in finding that the water damage resulted from Mr Falzon's poor workmanship and/or his use of faulty materials. As Mr Falzon explained this ground of appeal in his oral submissions, the Tribunal should have rejected the quotations of the builders. The quotations were based on self-interest and have not been tested. They were not filed "in accordance with evidence rules." In the absence of the quotations there was no evidence before the Tribunal, apart from the assertion of Mr and Mrs Tedman that the waterproofing was faulty. 
We reject this submission. One quotation did not refer to the damage or opine on the cause but was relied on by the Tribunal to quantify Mr and Mrs Tedman's loss. The second quotation from P and R Lawrence opined as follows:
In the reasons for decision it is clear that the Tribunal relied on the sworn evidence of Mr Tedman given during the course of the hearing and the opinion of P and R Lawrence. While the basis for the opinion is not articulated or tested, there was no evidence to the contrary. The Tribunal is not bound by the rules of evidence (s 38(2) of the CAT Act) and there was material before the Tribunal on which the findings of the Tribunal that waterproofing by Mr Falzon was the cause of the damage was based. This is not a case where there was no evidence to support the findings and conclusions of the Tribunal (Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33;  (1990) 170 CLR 321 per Mason CJ at 355-56). Accordingly, this issue does not raise a question of law and is not relevant to our deliberation.
If Mr Falzon's appeal raises a question of law, it is not necessary for us to determine the question of leave. 
There is no dispute that the invoiced services supplied by Mr Falzon did not exceed $1000. Accordingly, not only are the statutory warranties in s 18B of the Home Building Act not available to Mr and Mrs Tedman but, importantly, the Tribunal did not, at the relevant time nor does it now, have jurisdiction to hear and determine Mr and Mrs Tedman's claim under the Home Building Act. 
There was no claim available to Mr and Mrs Tedman under the Consumer Claims Act because the application was filed outside the three-year time limit as prescribed by that Act. This was explained in the guidelines and acknowledged by Mr and Mrs Tedman when they ticked the box indicating that the application was NOT made within the time limit prescribed.
Relevantly, the application form itself stated "the answer to all the questions must be YES or otherwise the application may be dismissed." As such, the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to consider the application as a consumer claim when Mr and Mrs Tedman commenced the proceeding in 2012. 
The Tribunal may only exercise functions as conferred by statute. Mr Falzon's submission is therefore correct. The Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to make the order on 10 February 2014 and, indeed at the time the proceedings were commenced by Mr and Mr Tedman, the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine this matter. Nor did Mr and Mrs Tedman have any entitlement to make a claim under the statutory warranties provided under the Home Building Act. This was not identified at the time Mr and Mrs Tedman lodged their claim because proceedings were commenced in the General Division of the CTTT, rather than in the Home Building Division, and the contract price, the key information alerting the Tribunal to the jurisdictional limit, did not need to be recorded on the application form. Furthermore, the invoice for the service was not attached to the application. 
It is unclear whether the Tribunal had evidence of the invoice at the hearing on 10 February 2014 and whether the Tribunal could have been on notice there was a jurisdictional flaw in Mr and Mrs Tedman's claim. However, we note that the Tribunal specifically addressed jurisdiction in the reasons for decision under the specific heading, stating as follows:
It is also unclear whether Mr Falzon would have raised the jurisdiction of the Tribunal if he had participated in the hearing at first instance given he did not raise this issue in in his notice of appeal and did not particularise this ground of appeal until his submissions were filed. As already noted, Mr and Mrs Tedman did not have a notice of this submission until they were served with a submission by email the day before the hearing and, on their account, not until the commencement of the hearing when the submission was drawn to their attention by the Appeal Panel. The Appeal Panel briefly adjourned the hearing to allow Mr and Mrs Tedman to read the submission.
While it is unfortunate Mr and Mrs Tedman were not on notice that Mr Falzon was seeking to raise this issue, the lack of notice is immaterial to the merits of the submission. There is no prejudice to Mr and Mrs Tedman because there is no available argument or evidence that can be, or could have been, raised in response. The matter cannot be rectified by evidence or further investigation. Mr and Mrs Tedman's claim was fundamentally flawed from the outset. Even if Mr Falzon had not raised the question of jurisdiction, it would have been incumbent on the Tribunal to dismiss Mr and Mrs Tedman's claim once the issue of the contract price, which is not disputed, was identified. Furthermore, there is no utility in remitting the matter for reconsideration on the merits as the claim cannot succeed, either as a claim in the Home Building Division of the General Division. 
The comments of the Court of Appeal (Bathurst CJ, Beazley P and Tobias AJA) in Warkworth Mining Limited v Bulga Milbrodale Progress Association Inc [2014] NSWCA 105 at  [41] - [43] is apposite:
In the present case, there is no further information that could have made any difference to Mr and Mrs Tedman's claim. Once the contract price for the waterproofing was established, it was inevitable that Mr and Mrs Tedman's claim would fail. This was the position at the time of the hearing on 10 February 2014 and remains the case. As the Tribunal does not have jurisdiction, there is no utility in setting aside the order and listing the matter for a rehearing. 
The appeal must therefore succeed and it is not necessary for the Appeal Panel to consider the question of whether Mr Falzon was denied procedural fairness.
However, as the matter was commenced in 2012, which was within the limitation period for commencing a claim for breach of contract, the parties may wish to have the matter transferred to a court of competent jurisdiction to have the matter determined as a contract claim. 
While the Appeal Panel would have power to transfer the proceedings pursuant to s 81(2) of the CAT Act, given the late notice of the jurisdictional issue, this was not an issue raised with, or by, the parties at the hearing of the appeal. As such, the most appropriate course is to set aside the decision and remit the proceedings to be reconsidered in accordance with our reasons on this question alone. This will give the parties adequate opportunity to decide whether they wish to have the proceedings transferred to a court of competent jurisdiction and to make submissions on this issue to the Tribunal. 
The appeal is allowed.
The orders made on 10 February 2014 are set aside.
Mr and Mrs Tedman are to prepare submissions to indicate whether they wish to have the matter transferred to a court of competent jurisdiction. Such submissions are to be filed with the Registry and served on Mr Falzon on or before 31 December 2014.
In the event Mr and Mrs Tedman seek a transfer, Mr Falzon shall prepare submissions to indicate whether the transfer is consented to or opposed. Such submissions shall be filed with the Registry and served on the respondents by no later than 15 January 2015.
The proceedings are remitted for consideration of whether they should be transferred to a court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with our reasons and any submissions filed and served by the parties. 
############# I'm default separator ##########94
INTERNAL APPEAL - decision to refuse to extend timetable to allow filing ofevidence in reply - interlocutory matter - leave required- appeal filed out oftime
This is an appeal from an interlocutory decision made in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal on 13 October 2014. The notice of appeal from that decision was filed in the Tribunal on 18 November 2014. 
The proceedings concern an application filed on 7 June 2013 in the Home Building Division of the Tribunal's antecedent, the Consumer Trader Tenancy Tribunal. The applicant sought compensation in the sum of $50,000 from the respondent, builder. 
The appellant is the applicant in the proceedings below. 
The decision which is the subject of this appeal was to refuse the applicant's application for an adjournment of the hearing on 15 December 2015 to allow the applicant to file additional expert evidence and to further amend the application by adding another item. Brief reasons were given and these are set out below:
In the notice of appeal the appellant listed the grounds of the appeal as follows:
In addition, the appellant sought from the appeal panel an order that the hearing currently set down for 15 December 2014 be vacated and that the appellant have 28 days to file any additional evidence with the matter being listed for directions in February 2015.
Until April 2014 the appellant was represented by Mr Austin McRae solicitor. However on approximately 23 April 2014 Mr McRae indicated to the appellant that he wished to be relieved of his retainer as his practice had changed such that it had become "inefficient and impractical" for him to handle litigation matters. Accordingly, by arrangement with the appellant Mr Hemsley, solicitor was engaged to act for the appellant.
At the time of the change of solicitors it appears as if the position was that the appellant had filed points of claim and his evidence, and that the respondent had filed points of defence and evidence. That had occurred on 14 April 2014.
Mr McRae has filed a statutory declaration in which he deposes to aspects of the history of his involvement. He records the change of solicitor in April 2014 referred to above and also deposes that he was re engaged by the appellant in October 2014. This apparently occurred because Mr Hemsley had not been able to give the proceedings attention due to illness within his family.
Mr McRae's statutory declaration states that in his opinion the application has not been properly prepared for the forthcoming hearing in that there is no evidence in reply to:
Mr McRae's statutory declaration also states that the respondent's evidence introduces new material concerning interactions between the respondent and the appellant's architect.
Mr McRae states that had he acted for the appellant during the period May to October 2014 he would have sought directions for the filing of evidence in reply.
Mr McRae's opinion is that the appellant's prospects of success will be unfairly prejudiced if the appellant is not able to file evidence in reply to the respondent's case and that any prejudice caused to the respondent by the appellant filing further evidence and by the hearing date being vacated can be dealt with by an appropriate costs order made at the conclusion of the proceedings.
The respondent's solicitor has filed a reply to appeal in which the respondent opposes the orders sought in the appeal.
The respondent's solicitor makes the submissions which are summarised in the paragraphs below.
On 5 May 2014 Mr Hemsley sought leave to file further material relating to an issue in the proceedings and the Tribunal made orders that any evidence relating to this issue be filed and served by 26 May 2014 with the respondent being given leave to respond by 23 June 2014. No evidence was filed by the appellant by 26 May 2014 or at all. Those orders were made by consent.
On 28 July 2014 the Tribunal ordered, by consent, that the parties should advise the Tribunal by 30 September of available dates for witnesses and representatives. In addition an order was made that on or before 30 September 2014 all experts are to meet and file a joint experts report or reports (or combined Scott Schedule as appropriate). The respondent's contentions state that the experts met and a joint expert report has been filed.
The respondent contends that on 13 October 2014 the appellant's solicitor "sought general leave to file unspecified additional material and add an unspecified further item of claim". In addition, the respondent contends that the appellant did not produce a copy of the additional material or a draft amended notice of claim to support the application before the Member. No copy of the additional material or draft amended notice of claim has been provided in this appeal.
The respondent notes that the matter has been fixed for hearing on 15 and 16 December 2014 and that an agreed bundle of documents has been filed as ordered by the Tribunal on 27 October 2014 together with an agreed statement of issues.
The respondent contends that the appellant has had since 14 April 2014 to consider the respondent's material and in effect did not take any action with respect to that material for six months.
The respondent further contends that he will suffer prejudice by reason of the lengthy delay and that the prejudice cannot be cured by a costs order.
The Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act) provides in section 80 (2)(a) that an internal appeal may be made in the case of an interlocutory decision of the Tribunal at first instance with the leave of the Appeal Panel.
This is an appeal from an interlocutory decision and accordingly the leave of the Appeal Panel is required. An 'interlocutory decision" is defined in s 4 of the NCAT Act to include "the granting of a stay or adjournment", "the extension of time for any matter" and "any other interlocutory issue before the Tribunal." The interlocutory decision in this case is to refuse to adjourn the hearing so that evidence in reply could be filed. Alternatively, the decision could be characterised as a refusal to extend time for evidence in reply to be filed . 
Rule 25(4)(c) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (NSW) provides that an appeal must be lodged within 28 days from the day on which the appellant was notified of the decision to be appealed or given reasons for the decision (whichever is the later) unless the Tribunal grants an extension under section 41 of the NCAT Act. This appeal was filed outside the 28 days required under the rule by approximately 1 week.
The appellant's submissions attempt to explain the delay in filing the appeal by stating that after 13 October 2014 the appellant briefed counsel to advise and appear and that counsel recommended this appeal following a meeting with the appellant on 10 November 2014.
One of the features of this appeal is the ambiguity surrounding the nature of the additional evidence which the appellant wishes to file. There are a number of different descriptions of such evidence. For example, the decision of 13 October 2014 referred to an application to file "additional expert evidence" and to further amend the application by adding another item. As against that description the statutory declaration of Mr McRae refers only to evidence in reply (and not an amendment to include an additional item) but is not limited to expert evidence. 
Furthermore, McRae does not explain the need for further expert evidence in the light of the apparent filing of a joint experts' report
By reason of the failure of the appellant to be specific as to the nature of the evidence to be filed in reply it is difficult for the Appeal Panel to gauge whether the late filing of evidence would cause prejudice to the respondent and whether a refusal would prejudice the appellant.
The Tribunal has provided guidance in a number of cases on the considerations to the borne in mind when determining applications to extend time under section 41 in the context of the late filing of a Notice of Appeal: Di Salvo v Leung  [2014] NSWCATAP 44. The relevant considerations maybe summarised as follows: (i) the length of the delay;
In addition the discretion to extend time can only be exercised in favour of an appellant upon strict proof that compliance with the rules will work an injustice upon the appellant: Di Salvo v Leung at [21] and [22].
In this case the length of the delay is only approximately 1 week but in the context it is a week of some significance because of the hearing is scheduled for 15 December 2014. 
The reason for the delay in lodging the appeal within time is attributed to the fact that counsel was not able to give advice until on or after 10 November 2014. Assuming the advice had been given by counsel on 10 November 2014 the appeal could have been filed on or shortly after 11 November 2014 which would have been only a day out of time. There is no explanation as to why that did not take place. In any event, the appellant had engaged Mr McRae and it could reasonably be expected that he would have applied his mind to the question of whether the decision of 13 October 2014 ought to have been the subject of an appeal. In the opinion of the Tribunal the reason for the delay is inadequate.
So far as prejudice is concerned, it is clear that the respondent will be prejudiced if this this long standing piece of litigation is not dealt with this year. It appears as if arrangements have been made for witnesses including experts to be available in Wagga on 15 and 16 December 2014. If the hearing date were to be vacated these arrangements would have to be altered and the respondent and witnesses would have to be re engaged for a hearing to occur next year. No specific date for a resumed hearing can presently be indicated.
So far as the appellant's prospects of success are concerned it is difficult to assess whether a refusal to permit the appellant to adduce further evidence would be prejudicial to his prospects of success. Mr McRae has expressed the opinion that the appellant will be unfairly prejudiced. However, there is insufficient material provided by the appellant to enable the appeal panel to be satisfied that strict compliance with the rule requiring the Notice of Appeal to have been filed earlier will work an injustice to the appellant. The onus is on the appellant to provide sufficient material to support a finding that an injustice would likely be suffered if an extension were not granted.
A further consideration is the requirement of section 36 of the NCAT Act which describes the "guiding principle" for the conduct of proceedings before the Tribunal. In summary the guiding principle is that the Tribunal must facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings and further that persons (including parties and legal practitioners) are under a duty to cooperate with the Tribunal to give effect to the guiding principle.
In the opinion of the Appeal Panel there has been a failure by the appellant and his legal representative to comply with the obligations set out in section 36. In particular, the appellant has failed: (a) to comply with the consent direction made on 5 May 2014; and. 
In addition to the guiding principle in section 36 of the NAct, the Tribunal is necessarily guided by principles enunciated by the High Court. In Aon Risk Services Australia v Australian National University [2009] HCA 27 (5 August 2009) the High Court pointed out that it is not always the case that prejudice caused by vacating a hearing date can be compensated by a costs order. In our view a costs order in favour of the respondent will not adequately compensate the respondent. He will be further prejudiced by the delay in resolving the dispute.
Having regard to the matters referred to above, the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that it ought to exercise its discretion to extend time for the Notice of Appeal to be lodged and leave to appeal is refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########95
LEGAL REPRESENTATION: whether leave to represent party in Appeal Panelhearing necessary; discretion to allow party to be legallyrepresented; whetherunfair to respondent; issues not complex; leave refused. BIAS: whetherapprehended bias because leave for legal representation refused; application todisqualify rejected. APPEAL: Leave to appeal; questions of fact; noquestions of law; no other basis for leave; leave refused.
This is an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal made on 26 May 2014. The Notice of Appeal states that the appellant received notice of the orders on 17 June 2014. The Notice of Appeal was filed on 23 June 2014.
The Tribunal ordered that Gearbox Solutions Pty Ltd (the appellant) pay the sum of $3400 to Michael Bougoukas (the respondent) following repair work undertaken by the appellant to the gearbox of a motor vehicle owned by the respondent. The Tribunal found that the appellant had been negligent in undertaking the work on the gearbox and that as a result of the repairs undertaken damage was caused to the transmission of the respondent's vehicle. The Tribunal ordered that the $1400 paid by the respondent to the appellant for the work undertaken be refunded. The Tribunal also ordered that the appellant pay to the respondent the sum of $500 for parts to repair the transmission and $1500 for labour to remove and reinstall the gear box, towing costs and transmission oil.
In reaching its decision, it was apparent that the Tribunal placed weight upon a document from Auto Trans Australia (the ATA Report) tendered by the respondent at the hearing. In the ATA Report, Auto Trans Australia examined the transmission of the respondent's vehicle and found that it had been recently repaired, but repaired "very poorly". It listed 7 items where it discovered "incorrect fitted parts and failures". 
The appellant confirmed at the hearing before the Appeal Panel that it was served with this document about two weeks prior to the hearing before the Tribunal. It did not adduce any evidence at the Tribunal to refute the matters in the ATA Report but addressed those matters in oral submissions. This is significant as the appellant now seeks to challenge the matters in the ATA Report and the factual findings made by the Tribunal in reliance on it.
The appellant requires leave to appeal as no questions of law are raised by it. 
For the reasons that follow, we refuse leave to appeal.
It is convenient to set out the relevant parts of the Notice of Appeal by way of background to our consideration of whether the appellant raises any questions of law or whether leave to appeal ought otherwise be granted. The Notice of Appeal states that the orders challenged on appeal are:
The grounds of appeal are as follows:  (1) Damage to second-hand housing could not be called by any work we carried out; (2) Valve body cannot be damaged by work we do. This part is normal wear & tear; (3) Transmission instalment-normal time is 7.5 hours at $88 =$660; (4) Oil should only be charged once & takes only 7 litres at $10 P/L; (5) We installed parts to value of $900-& Labour $500-the parts are still in the vehicle; (6) Mr Bougoukas (Lic. Mech.) Advised us that he wanted to change only the planetary gears to keep costs down-against our advice; (7) We were instructed by Mr Bougoukas to only repair the problem, which was to replace the planetary gears only. Even after we advised that we had found metal & clutch material in the sump. Our suggestion was to strip & check. Mr Bougoukas did not want to follow our advice & said that-"the transmission drives beautifully-just replace the broken planetary gears". Bearing in mind he delivered us the gearbox only & we had not driven the vehicle ourselves. We consequently did as instructed. Mr Bougoukas is a licensed mechanic & expected that he knew what he was talking about, in regard to the state of the transmission.
The orders sought in the Notice of Appeal are: (1) Cost of housing should not be awarded it was not damaged when it left our premises, nor caused by our workmanship; (2) We disagree with cost of valve body, this is normal wear & tear; (3) If we found negligent, cost of one installation only awarded, cost of 7 litres oil at $70; (4) We should be awarded cost of parts used in initial repair value of $900.
The notice of appeal indicated that leave to appeal was sought. In section 12A of the Notice of Appeal, the reasons why leave to appeal should be granted were stated to be:
In section 12B of the Notice to Appeal, being the section which requires an appellant to state the grounds for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, it was indicated that the appellant asserted that the decision of the Tribunal was not fair and equitable because: 
The appellant also indicated in the Notice of Appeal that an extension of time to appeal was sought. However, as noted above, the notice to appeal was filed within 28 days of the appellant receiving notice of the decision and, accordingly, was filed within time: see Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014, clause 25 (4)(c). No extension of time was required.
Finally, the Notice of Appeal indicated that a stay of the original decision was sought.
On 4 July 2014, the appeal panel constituted by Senior Member Boyce determined the application for a stay and made the following directions for the conduct of the appeal: (1) The application for a stay of the order is made by the Tribunal on 26 May 2014 is dismissed. (2) On or before 22 July 2014 the appellant is the file and serve: (a) all evidence in support of any application for leave to appeal and appeal; (b) a copy of the audio sound recording of the hearing before the Tribunal on 26 May 2014 and typed copy of any evidence in that sound recording on which the appellant seeks to rely; and (c) submissions, including in relation to: (i) Why leave to appeal should be granted and why an oral hearing is necessary on the question of leave; and (ii) why any oral hearing of the appeal (is leave is granted) should not be dispensed with pursuant to section 50(2) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act, 2013. (3) 3. On or before for 5 August 2014 the respondent is the file and serve any evidence and submissions in response to the appellant's submissions and evidence required by order 2 above, including a typed copy of any evidence in that sound recording in which the respondent seeks to rely. (4) On or before 5 August 2014 the appellant is to file and serve any evidence and submissions in reply. (5) The respondent is otherwise to file a Reply as required by the Rules. (6) The matter will be referred to the appeal panel after the time for submissions are closed to determine whether a hearing is to be dispensed with and the matter is determined on the papers.
On 16 October 2014, the Appeal Panel constituted by Deputy President Westgarth made the following directions: (1) Appellant to file and serve submissions and other material by 23/10/2014.  (2) Respondent file and serve submissions and other material by 30/10/2014. (3) Appellant to file and serve submissions and other material in reply by 6/11/2014. (4) Appeal listed for hearing on 21/11/2014 at 2:15 PM for half day.
The appellant filed a document dated 20/10/2014 comprising four pages of typed material. Mr Theodoridis, a director of the appellant, prepared this document as the appellant's submissions on the appeal. The appellant did not provide any other material or documentary evidence, including any typed copy of the audio recording of the original hearing, in support of it's application for leave to appeal or the appeal.
The respondent filed a document dated 28/10/2014 headed "Response". This was a one-page typed document attaching extracts of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (the Act) and a copy of a request for sound recording made by the respondent on 24 October 2014. Whilst the respondent had a CD copy of the audio recording of the hearing below with him at the hearing before the Appeal Panel, he did not provide any written extract from that recording nor did he tender it.
At the commencement of the Appeal Panel hearing a Mr Ford, solicitor, announced his appearance for the appellant. The Appeal Panel noted that pursuant to section 45 of the Act, Mr Ford would require leave of the Appeal Panel to appear for the appellant. That section provides:
In this case, the appellant required leave to be legally represented at the hearing of the Appeal Panel because it did not have an entitlement to be represented by a legal representative at the hearing in which the decision under appeal was made.
The Appeal Panel refused the application for Mr Ford to represent the appellant and indicated it would give its reasons in the reasons for decision of the application itself. These are those reasons.
In support of the application for leave to represent the appellant, Mr Ford submitted that his client had a right to be legally represented at the hearing. Mr Ford submitted that the matter was a complex one and that the decision below was attended by serious errors of fact and law.
The Appeal Panel pointed out to Mr Ford that, contrary to his submissions, the appellant did not have a right to be legally represented at the hearing. Further, the Appeal Panel noted that by granting the appellant leave to be legally represented at this late stage, unfairness could be visited upon the respondent who was appearing unrepresented. Mr Ford's response was that if there was any unfairness to the respondent, he could apply for an adjournment so that he too could be legally represented. Mr Ford repeated the submission that his client had a right to legal representation so as to best put his case to the Appeal Panel. Mr Ford submitted that the Tribunal was not a court and not bound by the rules of evidence and should conduct its procedures informally and allow him to represent the appellant.
The respondent objected to the appellant's application that it be legally represented. He indicated that he had always been told that parties to proceedings in the Tribunal could not be legally represented. He submitted that it would be unfair to him if the appellant was now able to be legally represented when he had no opportunity to obtain legal representation.
As noted, the Appeal Panel refused the appellant's application that it be legally represented. In our opinion there was no reason why leave ought to have been granted. Section 45 of the Act, set out above, starts from the position that a party is not entitled to be represented at a Tribunal hearing. In order for leave to be granted, there needs to be a proper reason for that prima facie position to be departed from. There was no such reason in this case. 
It may be that there will be cases where the complexity of the issues involved, including any questions of law which may arise, would mean that the Appeal Panel would be assisted by a party, or the parties, being legally represented. This is not such a case. Contrary to the submissions of Mr Ford, the matter is not one of great complexity. The director of the appellant was able to, and did, appear in the Tribunal hearing and put the appellant's case to the Tribunal. Further, contrary to the submissions of Mr Ford, the Notice of Appeal did not raise on its face serious errors of law in respect to the decision below. Indeed, no errors of law are specified in, or apparent from, a reading of the Notice of Appeal.
The Appeal Panel was also concerned that there was a real risk that the respondent would be prejudiced, or at least feel that he was prejudiced so as to affect the presentation of his case, if the appellant was legally represented. In fact the respondent made it clear that he felt it was unfair to him that he would be making his submissions in response to a lawyer, particularly as he had no notice of the application. The Appeal Panel accepted that this would have been unfair to the respondent. 
Additionally, as Mr Ford noted, the Tribunal is not a court. It is a statutory tribunal the rules and procedures for which are set out in the Act and the subordinate rules and regulations. Of course, the Tribunal is bound to act fairly, but to both parties. The informality of the Tribunal proceedings, as referred to by Mr Ford, speaks against the grant of leave for parties to be legally represented in proceedings which otherwise are not complex or do not raise issues of law. The Act recognises this by prescribing that, with limited exceptions (see, for example clause 7 of Schedule 4 of the Act with respect to legal representation in certain proceedings in the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal) parties are not entitled to be represented but must appear for themselves. This was not a case where the issues were so complex, or significant questions of law arose, such that the Appeal Panel would have required the assistance of submissions made by a legally qualified person.
Another relevant factor is that the respondent had no notice of the application that the appellant made so that, even if he wanted to, he could not have arranged for legal representation himself (assuming leave for such representation would have been granted). It is no answer to say that if there was unfairness caused to the respondent in such circumstances, he could have asked for an adjournment so as to obtain legal representation. Such an approach speaks against the guiding principle by which the Tribunal and Appeal Panel operate as set out in section 36 of the Act, namely, to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings. Section 36 (4) notes that in addition, the practice and procedure of the Tribunal should be implemented so as to facilitate the resolution of the issues between the parties in such a way that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject matter of the proceedings. In this case, having regard to the submissions made by Mr Ford on behalf of the appellant, the nature of the matter, the issues which arose on the appeal and the potential unfairness to the respondent, the Appeal Panel was not satisfied that it was appropriate to exercise its discretion to grant leave to the appellant to be legally represented. To do so would have increased the costs of the matter, potentially delayed its resolution in a manner that was not proportionate to the complexity and subject matter of the proceedings.
When the Appeal Panel informed Mr Ford of its decision to refuse the appellant's application that he represent it, he made a further application. That application was that the Appeal Panel disqualify itself for bias. Whilst, formally, he required leave to make such an application on behalf of the appellant (leave for him to appear having been refused), the Appeal Panel allowed him to do so.
The application arose in the following manner. During the exchange between the Appeal Panel and Mr Ford in the course of the appellant's application that it be legally represented, Mr Ford indicated that if that application was refused, this would constitute a further basis of appeal for his client. When asked to clarify that submission, Mr Ford indicated that if the application for legal representation was rejected, it would be evidence of bias by the Appeal Panel against his client. When the application for legal representation was rejected and when pressed as to whether or not he was making any application in respect to the alleged bias, Mr Ford indicated that he was applying for the Appeal Panel to disqualify itself for bias because, as it did not allow the appellant to be legally represented as was its right, a fair-minded observer would not think that the Appeal Panel would approach the hearing of the appellant's case fairly. The Appeal Panel did not understand Mr Ford to submit that it had displayed actual bias, rather that the refusal of the application for legal representation would evidence apprehended bias.
The Appeal Panel rejected the application that it disqualify itself and gave short oral reasons. Those reasons were that the simple rejection of an application for a party to an appeal to be legally represented, without more, could in no way be seen by a fair minded observer to mean that the Appeal Panel would not approach the hearing of the appeal in anything other than a fair manner. The Appeal Panel noted that section 45 of the Act (referred to above) provided that parties to proceedings in the Tribunal were not entitled to be represented and could only be represented if leave was granted. In refusing leave for legal representation it could not be thought that the Appeal Panel would not allow the appellant to fully argue its case and rely on any material relevant to that case.
The refusal of the application in respect to the alleged bias was, in the Appeal Panel's opinion, a proper application of the test for apprehended bias, namely, whether a fair-minded lay observer might reasonably apprehend that the judge might not bring an impartial and unprejudiced mind to the resolution of the question the judge is required to decide : Ebner v Official Trustee in Bankruptcy  [2000] HCA 63;  (2000) 205 CLR 337 at  [6]; Michael Wilson & Partners Limited v Nicholls [2011] HCA 48;  (2011) 244 CLR 427 at  [31]. Mr Ford did not submit that the Appeal Panel had displayed any pre-judgment of the appellant's case (indeed, it was unclear from Mr Ford's submissions why it was apprehended that the Appeal Panel would approach the appellant's case with any bias). If, implicit in Mr Fords submissions, it was suggested that there had been a pre-judgment of the appellant's case, there is no basis for such a suggestion. There had been no discussion of the material to be relied upon by the appellant (it had not at that stage been specifically identified) nor of the merits of the appellant's appeal. In the Appeal Panel's opinion, there was absolutely no basis at all for the application that it disqualify itself from hearing the appeal.
Following the rejection of that application, Mr Ford applied for a brief adjournment to take instructions as to whether or not his client was to take any further part in the appeal proceedings. A brief adjournment was granted following which the Appeal Panel was informed that Mr Theodoridis would conduct the appeal on behalf of the appellant. The application for leave to appeal then took the normal course.
As the appeal is from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division, unless the appeal is on a question of law, leave to appeal is required. Clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the Act provides:
The Appeal Panel explained to Mr Thoedoridis these principles and that he needed to identify why leave to appeal ought be granted and that he needed to identify why he may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice. 
The principles to be applied by the Appeal Panel in considering an application for leave to appeal from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division were discussed in Collins v Urban  [2014] NSWCATAP 17 at  [65]- [84]. After considering the relevant authorities, the Appeal Panel stated:
Of course, if the Appeal Panel is satisfied that an appellant from a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice on one of the grounds identified in cl 12 (1) (a), (b) or (c), then it may grant leave under s 80(2) of the Act. It retains a discretion in this regard. In exercising that discretion, the principles applicable were summarised by the Appeal Panel in Collins v Urban at [84].
We will apply these principles in determining the appellant's application.
The appellant submitted that the decision of the Tribunal was based in large part upon the ATA Report referred to above. The appellant submitted that all it had been requested to do by the respondent was to fix the planetary gears in the gearbox. It was not asked to fully investigate and recondition the transmission system of the respondent's vehicle. The appellant was critical of the seven matters raised in the ATA Report. In its written submissions the appellant dealt with each of those matters. Mr Theodoris also spoke to some of them. The appellant also said that there had been recent discussions with the director of Also Trans who said he had been told by the respondent that the whole of the transmission had been reconditioned by the appellant. The appellant noted this was not correct. The appellant said that the director of Auto Trans would not, however, put anything in writing.
The fundamental point that the appellant reiterated was that several of the items listed in the ATA Report could not have been caused by the work it undertook in simply fixing the planetary gears. The balance of the appellant's written submissions, deal with why it is said the factual findings of the Tribunal were incorrect.
In the circumstances, the appellant submitted that the decision of the Tribunal was wrong.
The respondent submitted that the appellant had every opportunity to make, and did make, the same submissions as he made to the Appeal Panel to the Tribunal at the hearing of the matter. The respondent submitted that the appellant had not put before the Appeal Panel any new or additional evidence to show that the decision of the Tribunal was wrong. The respondent submitted that the appellant had not provided any proper evidence from Auto Trans disputing the content of the ATA Report. The respondent further noted that the appellant had every opportunity prior to the hearing before the Tribunal to respond to the matters raised in the ATA Report but did not do so.
The respondent submitted that the appellant had possession of his vehicle for several months. The respondent denied that he had told Auto Trans that the transmission had been overhauled by the appellant. The respondent submitted that no errors of law had been demonstrated by the appellant.
In reply to the respondent's submissions, the appellant repeated that he had spoken to the director of Auto Trans who had told him that the respondent had said that the transmission had been fully reconditioned by the appellant. The appellant also repeated his assertion that the director of auto trans had refused to put this in writing.
The appellant accepted that it had possession of the respondent's vehicle for 2-3 months but argued that this was not its fault as it only replaced the planetary transmission and the truck would not drive. The appellant repeated its submission that people not allowed by the respondent to bench strip the transmission.
The Notice of Appeal does not identify any errors of law with any precision, or at all. 
In situations where the Notice of Appeal does not articulate and express in terms any question of law it is necessary for the Appeal Panel to determine whether a question of law has in fact been raised, subject to any procedural fairness considerations which might arise to the respondent (see the discussion in Prendergast v Western Murray Irrigation Ltd  [2014] NSWCATAP 69 at  [11]- [13]).
In this case, the Appeal Panel after considering the content of the Notice of Appeal does not consider that any questions of law have been raised by the appellant. The grounds of appeal set out in the Notice of Appeal are really challenges to the factual findings made by the Tribunal 
Whilst it is not an error of law to simply make a wrong finding of fact, pointing to a wrong finding of fact may be indicative of an underlying error of law, for instance, if the decision maker had failed to consider a relevant consideration, considered irrelevant factors or was reflective of a decision that no reasonable decision maker could make. We do not think any of these factors apply to the findings in this case. We note that there is no complaint by the appellant about how the Tribunal conducted the hearing by which it reached its conclusions on the facts. We do not think that there was anything raised by the appellant which makes the decision below one which was not fair and equitable (see Agrison Pty Ltd v Madsen  [2014] NSWCATAP 95 at  [57]- [60]).
The difficulty for the appellant is that it appears to the Appeal Panel that it was open to the Tribunal to make the findings that it did. Whilst the appellant is critical of the material in the ATA Report, it is important to recall that, as the respondent submitted, the appellant had the opportunity to put before the Tribunal material responding to that report. It did not do so. It now seeks to challenge the findings made by the Tribunal based on that report, because it disagrees with the Tribunal's findings. It takes issue with the 7 items in the RTA report. It says that many of them are factually incorrect and were not open to the Tribunal. However, it has not placed before the Appeal Panel any evidence, expert or otherwise, on which we could conclude that the Tribunal's findings were wrong. It has simply made the submissions that the findings were not open to the Tribunal. In effect, it is, as the respondent submitted, seeking to have a second hearing of the matters determined adversely to it by the Tribunal without placing before the Appeal Panel any material in support of submissions which were rejected by the Tribunal.
Further, in the Appeal Panel's opinion there is insufficient material available to conclude that the respondent misled Auto Trans by deliberately telling it that the appellant had overhauled the transmission and that this effected the ATA Report. We would not make that finding on such a significant issue simply based upon the oral submissions as to the apparent conversation Mr Theodoridis had with an unidentified director of Auto Trans. The appellant had the opportunity to put on written evidence in response to the ATA Report at the hearing before the Tribunal but did not do so. It could have spoken to the author of the ATA Report before the hearing below but did not do so. It also had the opportunity to put further material before the Appeal Panel in respect to the ATA Report but did not do so.
The appellant accepted that he had made submissions on the ATA Report to the Tribunal, including the 7 matters raised in it. The Tribunal has considered those submissions as, in its reasons, it states that: ..."the [appellant] argued that the work done by ATA went way beyond what the [appellant] was contracted to do and there is some merit in that argument. Based on the AYTA (sic) report I am satisfied that the respondent has not only been negligent in carrying out the repairs which it attempted but also I am satisfied that during the course of the repairs the respondent caused other damage to the [respondent's] transmission." 
The fact that the Tribunal accepted that the work done by Auto Trans went beyond the work the appellant did is reflected in the fact that the Tribunal did not award the respondent the full $3,300 paid by the respondent to Auto Trans, but rather only awarded amounts attributable to the findings that the work done by the appellant had caused other damage to the respondent's transmission.
In all of the circumstances, the Appeal Panel does not accept that there are any questions of law raised by the appeal. Nor has the appellant established any of the matters which the Appeal Panel is to be satisfied as a precondition for leave to appeal being granted as specified in clause 12 of Schedule 4 of the Act. The appellant has not satisfied us that it may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice.
There is no basis for the grant of leave to appeal. 
The respondent sought an order for costs of the appeal. 
Pursuant to section 60 of the Act, each party to proceedings in the Tribunal is to pay the party's own costs. The Tribunal does have power to award costs in proceedings before it only if it is established that there are special circumstances warranting an award of costs. Such costs may include the cost of, or incidental to, the proceedings giving rise to an application or appeal as well as the cost of or incidental to the application or appeal.
Whilst the respondent has no doubt been inconvenienced by having to attend the hearing of the matter before the Appeal Panel, that inconvenience and the fact that the application for leave to appeal by the appellant has been unsuccessful are not sufficient, without more, to justify special circumstances that such that an award of costs in his favour is warranted.
In our opinion, this is not the case where we would find special circumstances are so as to enliven our discretion to award costs. 
The orders we make are: (1) The application for leave to appeal is refused.
############# I'm default separator ##########96
Lease - whether a retail shop lease - construction of Retail Leases Act1994, section 6(1)(b)
The question raised in these appeal proceedings concerns the interpretation of section 6(1)(b) of the Retail Leases Act 1994
If all four of these options were exercised, the period during which the lessee would be entitled to remain in possession of the leased premises would be 25 years. For this reason, section 6(1)(b) might well be applicable. If that was the case, the RL Act would not apply to the Lease or any subsequent lease created by any exercise of the option to renew and the Tribunal would have no jurisdiction to hear any dispute between the parties to it. This is because section 6(1)(b) is in the following terms:-
In these proceedings, the Respondent lessor, Albert Westacott, argued that the Original Lease and two further leases created by exercise of the option to renew did indeed fall within the scope of section 6(1)(b) and were therefore not governed by the RL Act. The Appellant lessee, Pyrmont Point Pty Ltd (hereafter 'Pyrmont Point'), argued that, on its proper interpretation, this provision did not apply to any of these leases or, in the alternative, that it applied only to the Original Lease.
For the reasons that follow, we have come to the conclusion that the arguments advanced on Mr Westacott's behalf should prevail.
The parties to the Original Lease were Dukest Property and Investments Pty Ltd, as lessor, and Dukest Trading and Investments Pty Ltd, as lessee. The memorandum of lease, dated 19 March 2004, indicated that the commencing date was 19 March 2004 and the terminating date was 18 March 2009. 
Clause 4.3(a) of the Original Lease provided for either party to give notice to the other party, six months before the terminating date, stating what it believed to be the current market rent for the premises at the date of commencement of any renewed term. Clause 4.3(b) stated that if the party receiving such a notice disputed the suggested rent, it must give notice to this effect within 28 days. In subsequent paragraphs, the clause provided for the resolution of any such dispute by an agreed valuer or (failing agreement) by the President or other officer of the Australian Property Institute Inc (NSW Division).
Clause 8.1 of the Original Lease stated as follows:-
In clause 1, 'Term' was defined to mean 'the period specified in Item 4'. Item 4 of the Reference Schedule stated that this period was five years.
Item 13 of this Schedule was as follows:-
The provision (Item 14) defining the permitted use of the Original Lease commenced as follows: 'Off Licence Retail bottle shop and delicatessen...'
On 20 April 2004, Dukest Property and Investments Pty Ltd assigned its interest as lessor under the Original Lease to Mr Westacott.
On 10 May 2006, Dukest Trading and Investments Pty Ltd assigned its interest as lessee under the Original Lease to Pirrama Pty Ltd ('Pirrama').
At some point during the period stipulated in clause 8.1 for exercise of the first option to renew the Original Lease, Pirrama exercised this option. In consequence, Mr Westacott issued to Pirrama a lessor's disclosure statement dated 9 March 2009. Above the heading 'Lessor's Disclosure Statement' appeared the words 'Retail Leases Act 1994 Schedule 2'.
On or about 19 March 2009, a memorandum of lease ('the Second Lease') was executed by Mr Westacott and Pirrama. It indicated that the commencing date was 19 March 2009 and the terminating date was 18 March 2014. Clause 4.3 in the Second Lease was in the same terms as in the Original Lease. Clause 8 was unchanged, except that the date specified in subparagraph (v) of paragraph (a) was 18 March 2029. Item 13 of the Reference Schedule was unchanged, except that it referred to three, not four, options for renewal.
On 15 September 2010, Mr Westacott, Pirrama and Pyrmont Point executed a deed of consent to the assignment of Pirrama's interest under the Second Lease to Pyrmont Point. In this deed, the term 'Lease' was defined as a 'Lease for 5 years from 19 March 2009 to 18 March 2014 with 3 options for renewal each for a further period of 5 years...' 
On 22 September 2010, Pirrama assigned its interest as lessee under the Second Lease to Pyrmont Point.
On 11 July 2013, Andrew Gibbons of Endeavour Property Advisory, acting as an agent of Pyrmont Point, sent to Patrick Woods of RJI Legal, who was Mr Westacott's solicitor, an email stating that the rent payable under the Second Lease was 'over double of the current market rental rates'. Attached to this email was a notice purporting to be a request under section 32(1)(b) of the RL Act for a determination of the current market rent that would apply if Pyrmont Point exercised the option to renew the Second Lease. 
On 18 September 2013, Mr Woods sent to Pyrmont Point an email giving notice under clause 4.3(a) of the Second Lease that Mr Westacott considered the current market rent for the premises to be $123,309 per annum plus GST.
In a letter to Mr Woods dated 23 September 2013, Mr Gibbons advised that Pyrmont Point disagreed with Mr Westacott's opinion as to the current market rent for the premises. He suggested that a specialist retail valuer should be appointed by the parties under section 31 of the RL Act, adding that if Mr Westacott did not agree with this approach, Pyrmont Point would apply to the Administrative Decisions Tribunal ('the ADT') for appointment of an independent valuer under section 32.
On 23 October 2013, an application for appointment of a specialist retail valuer relating to the Second Lease was filed in the ADT. It was defective because (inter alia) it was filed by Pirrama, not Pyrmont Point. 
On 14 November 2013, Mr Westacott filed an affidavit sworn by Mr Woods on the previous day, in which it was asserted that the ADT lacked jurisdiction to appoint a valuer because the leases between the parties were excluded by section 6(1)(b) from the operation of the RL Act.
On 19 November 2013, on account of concerns that its earlier notice might have been defective, Pyrmont Point served on Mr Westacott a second notice under section 32(1)(b).
On 21 November 2013, the ADT granted leave to Pyrmont Point to file an amended application substituting itself for Pirrama as the applicant. The Tribunal ordered that the question whether the RL Act was applicable should be decided 'on the papers' and gave directions for the filing of submissions on this matter.
Pursuant to these orders and directions, Pyrmont Point filed an amended application on 21 November 2013. It subsequently filed affidavits sworn by its solicitor, Jon Martin of JDK Legal, on 29 November 2013 and on 5 February 2014. It also filed three sets of submissions prepared by its counsel, David Murr SC. These were dated 29 November 2013, 5 February 2014 and 27 February 2014.
Two sets of submissions were filed by Mr Westacott's counsel, David Smallbone. These were dated 13 December 2013 and 20 February 2014.
On 17 December 2013, Pyrmont Point sent a written notice to Mr Westacott of its intention to exercise the option of renewal contained in the Second Lease, thereby giving rise to a further five-year lease of the premises.
In correspondence bearing the same date between Mr Woods and Mr Martin, Mr Martin maintained that the RL Act was applicable to the Second Lease (and any lease created by the exercise of the option contained it) and Mr Woods denied this proposition.
On 1 January 2014, the ADT was abolished and its functions were taken over by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal of New South Wales (hereafter 'the Tribunal'). The proceedings in the ADT thereupon became 'unheard proceedings' as defined in clause 6(1) of Schedule 1 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013
Pursuant to leave granted on 29 January 2014 by the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal, Pyrmont Point filed an amended application. This was an application for the appointment of a specialist retail valuer under section 31(1)(b) of the RL Act to determine the current market rent for the renewed lease arising from Pyrmont Point's exercise of the option ('the Third Lease'). 
On 19 March 2014, the Third Lease commenced.
On 25 March 2014, the Tribunal, constituted by G Mullane, Senior Member, published a decision which we will call 'the first Tribunal decision'. It was to the effect that because the leases between the parties fell within the scope of section 6(1)(b) of the RL Act, this Act did not apply to them and the Tribunal accordingly lacked jurisdiction. For present purposes, the relevant features of this decision (Pyrmont Point Pty Ltd (ACN 145199784) trading as "Red Bottle") v Albert Victor Westacott [2014] NSWCATCD 40) are as follows. 
At [8], the Tribunal stated:-
At [11 - 12], it gave the following reasons for its decision:-
On 8 April 2014, without having communicated further with the parties, the Tribunal, constituted by K Rickard, Senior Member, published 'the second Tribunal decision' (Pyrmont Point Pty Ltd v Albert Victor Westacott [2014] NSWCATCD 42). As with the first decision, its conclusion was that Pyrmont Point's application must be dismissed.
The reasons that the Tribunal gave for this conclusion were set out at paragraphs [10] to [16]:-
On 17 April 2014, Pyrmont Point filed a Notice of Appeal in which it sought orders setting aside both of the Tribunal decisions. Subsequently, Mr Westacott filed a Reply to Appeal and both parties filed submissions. 
The appeal was heard before us on 11 November 2014. Mr Murr SC appeared for the Appellant, Pyrmont Point, and Mr Smallbone for the Respondent, Mr Westacott. 
Somewhat unusually, there was agreement between the parties that both of the Tribunal decisions should be set aside. They were at one in submitting that the first decision was flawed because, as appeared from paragraph [8] of its reasons, the Tribunal had not given consideration to all the relevant material. In particular, it had not taken account of any of the submissions filed by Pyrmont Point. The parties also concurred in the view that the second decision should be held void and of no effect, on the ground that on delivery of the first decision the Tribunal was functus officio.
As would be expected, however, the parties advanced conflicting arguments as to what orders we should make in substitution for the Tribunal's orders. They requested that we take account of the submissions that they made to the Tribunal as well as those advanced in the appeal proceedings. Before we outline their submissions, we will refer to relevant statutory provisions.
Although, as indicated above, the Consumer and Commercial Division was required by clauses 6(1), 7(1) and 7(3)(b) of Schedule 1 of the NCAT Act to determine the proceedings before it as if that Act had not been enacted, this is not the case with the present appeal proceedings. They were instituted after the commencement date of this Act and are therefore governed by it.
We have already quoted the heading, the opening clause and the important subsection ((1)(b)) of section 6 of the RL Act. Subsection (1)(a) has been repealed. The remaining provisions of section 6(1) exclude the following categories of lease from the operation of the Act:-
Section 6(2) states: 'This Act does not apply to any lease referred to in this section that is assigned to another person after the commencement of this section.'
Parts of sections 31 and 32 and the whole of section 80 of the RL Act should also be quoted:-
The principal proposition underlying Mr Murr's argument was that the words 'lease' and 'leases', where each of them appear in paragraph (b) of section 6(1), should be taken to refer to the lease currently existing between the relevant parties, whether this be an initial lease or an 'option lease' (i.e., a lease arising on the exercise of an option). It was not correct, he said, to treat an initial lease and any option lease(s) that subsequently comes into being as one single lease, for the purposes of this provision. As indicated in section 80 of the RL Act (on which, however, Mr Murr placed relatively little emphasis), each of them is instead to be viewed as a separate lease between the parties.
It followed, according to Mr Murr, that when determining whether or not section 6(1)(b) had the effect of ousting the Tribunal's jurisdiction in these proceedings, the question to be asked was whether the Second Lease - being the current lease at the time when Pyrmont Point filed its application in the Tribunal - fell within the scope of this provision. The answer to this question was clearly no, even if account was taken of the possibility that under clause 8.1 of this Lease Pyrmont Point, as lessee, could exercise three options of renewal for (in each case) a five year term. On this basis, the overall duration of Pyrmont Point's tenure would be only 20 years, not the period of 25 years stipulated in section 6(1)(b). The same approach would be applicable to any subsequent option lease and the same result would ensue.
It was important in this context, Mr Murr maintained, that clause 8.1, where it appeared in the Second Lease, stated that the option available to Pyrmont Point was the renewal of 'this lease' and that subject to some limited exceptions the option lease was to be 'on the same terms and conditions as... this Lease'. Furthermore, in the Deed of Consent to Assignment of Lease executed on 15 September 2010 by Pirrama, Pyrmont Point and Mr Westacott, the term 'Lease' was defined as 'Lease for 5 years from 19 March 2009 to 18 March 2014 with 3 options for renewal each for a further period of 5 years...' (see [15] above). 
In support of these propositions, Mr Murr referred to the fact that the phrase in brackets in section 6(1)(b) employed the singular words 'term' and 'lease', not 'terms' or 'leases'. He acknowledged that under sections 6 and 8(b) of the Interpretation Act 1987
Mr Murr urged us to treat as obiter dicta only the ADT's observations in Wilson v Sydney Markets Limited [2009] NSWADT 256 that were quoted in the Tribunal's second decision. They were unnecessary, he claimed, for the decision to be made by the ADT and were not based on any close consideration of section 6(1)(b).
On the basis of these propositions, Mr Murr developed two lines of argument, which he put to us as alternatives.
His primary contention was that the phrase 'any term for which the lease may be extended or renewed at the option of the lessee' in section 6(1)(b) referred only to the period of any option lease that would come into being on the exercise of an option of renewal contained in the lease currently operating. It should not, he said, be treated as including the period(s) of any additional option lease(s). 
Mr Murr pointed out that according to this interpretation of section 6(1)(b), not merely the Second and Third Leases but also the Original Lease fell outside its scope. This was for the simple reason that the term of each of these Leases would be treated, for the purpose of section 6(1)(b), as ten years only. It would comprise the five-year period expressly stipulated as the duration of each Lease plus the further five-year period stipulated as the duration of the option lease that would come into being on exercise of the option provided for in clause 8.1.
Two arguments based on policy considerations were included in Mr Murr's submissions relating to his primary contention. 
The first was that it was appropriate to confine the operation of section 6(1)(b) to lease transactions in which the initial term, or the sum of this term and the term of any single option lease following it, was 25 or more years. Mr Murr claimed that, generally speaking, transactions of this nature only came into being between large commercial corporations, which had no evident need for the protections conferred (notably on tenants) by the RL Act. 
Secondly, in a case (such as the present) where an overall period of 25 years was only achieved by aggregating the term of the initial lease with the terms of two or more option leases, the interpretation of section 6(1)(b) urged by Mr Westacott could be seriously detrimental to the interests of an assignee of one of the option leases. Not being aware of the duration of the preceding leases, he or she might not realise that the initial lease gave rise to the possibility of a tenure of 25 years or more and that for this reason the lease being assigned fell outside the scope of the RL Act.
Mr Murr also mentioned, without placing undue emphasis on the point, that at the time when Pirrama exercised the first option to renew, Mr Westacott apparently believed that the Original Lease was governed by the RL Act. As indicated above at [13], he issued a lessors disclosure statement that referred to the Act in its heading.
The alternative contention advanced by Mr Murr was that the Original Lease might have been within the purview of section 6(1)(b), but this was not the case with the Second Lease or any subsequent option leases. According to this approach, it was correct to take account of all the options of renewal envisaged by the Original Lease when determining what we may call its 'notional term' for the purposes of this provision. Because the notional term of the Original Lease would be 25 years, this Lease would fall under section 6(1)(b). But this would not be the case with the Second Lease, which was still to be treated as a separate lease, or with any of the subsequent leases.
Mr Murr acknowledged that a consequence of this approach was that on the commencement of the Second Lease, the rights and liabilities of the parties would suffer a significant change. Their legal relations as lessor and lessee, having been previously unaffected by the RL Act, would become subject to its regulatory provisions. But he maintained that the parties, properly advised, could 'adjust' to this change.
On behalf of Mr Westacott, Mr Smallbone sought to establish the following propositions regarding section 6(1)(b) (they appear at paragraph 8 of his submissions to the Tribunal dated 20 February 2014):-
At the hearing of the appeal, he argued that the use of the plural word 'leases' in section 6 indicated that the terms of more than one option lease could be combined with that of the original lease when considering whether the total 'term' was 25 years or more. 
He argued also that the phrase 'any term' naturally embraced the plural as well as the singular and that accordingly there were no grounds for departing from the presumption stated in section 8(b) of the Interpretation Act. 
Mr Smallbone's arguments included a specific response to Mr Murr's submission that under section 6(1)(b) of the RL Act the 'term' of a lease could only include the initial term and the term of any first option lease that was envisaged. This response was as follows: (a) if, as in the present case, the first option lease contained a further option of renewal, the term of any lease arising on the exercise of this option would logically have to be taken into account also; and (b) the same process would have to be repeated if this second option lease and any subsequent option lease contained yet another option of renewal.
With regard to section 80 of the RL Act, Mr Smallbone maintained that it was important in indicating that a lease could be regarded as 'renewed' even though the option lease included different provisions. It was put to him by the Bench that section 80 appeared to support Mr Murr's claim that an option lease was a new lease, not just the continuation of the initial lease. In reply, Mr Smallbone submitted that this consideration did not affect the interpretation of section 6(1)(b), because this provision 'operated in its own special world'.
With reference to Mr Murr's alternative line of argument, Mr Smallbone maintained that the legislature could not have intended that a lease containing an option to renew should fall outside the RL Act during its initial term, but should fall within its scope as soon as the option lease commenced. The original parties and any assignee, he said, would frequently fail to realise that this had occurred and could suffer significant detriment because their expectations would be at odds with the true position.
In reply to Mr Murr's claim that it was appropriate to confine the operation of section 6(1)(b) to lease transactions that generally speaking involved large corporations only, Mr Smallbone maintained that there was no necessary correlation between large retailers and leases for long periods of time.
Mr Smallbone invited us to treat the observations on section 6(1)(b) in Wilson v Sydney Markets Limited as correct in law, even though they were dicta only. He cited other authorities, relating primarily to section 8 of the RL Act, but acknowledged that they were unlikely to assist us to any significant degree.
On the principal question in this appeal, we are in broad agreement with Mr Smallbone's submissions. We find useful his observation that section 6(1)(b) operates 'in its own special world'. It requires that account be taken of the 'notional term' (to pick up a phrase that we employed earlier in these reasons) of any lease that might otherwise be governed by the Act. When deciding whether such a lease falls within the category 'leases for a term of 25 years or more', one is required by the phrase in brackets to aggregate with its initial term any subsequent term or terms for which it may be extended or renewed at the lessee's option. The total thereby produced constitutes the 'notional term' of the lease (this being a concept of relevance only to section 6(1)(b)). 
If this notional term is 25 years or more, the Act does not apply, either to the initial lease or to any option leases that may subsequently arise. We agree with Mr Smallbone that the legislature should not be taken to have intended that a lease containing an option to renew would fall outside the RL Act during its initial term, but should come within its scope as soon as the option lease commenced. This would be a thoroughly illogical outcome.
In reaching this conclusion, we take less account than the parties did of the implications of the word 'lease' being used in both the singular and the plural forms within section 6. Although Mr Murr's contention that an option lease must be regarded as a new lease, distinct from the lease from which it originated has much to recommend it, it does not determine the issue before us because section 6(1)(b) operates, as we interpret it, by attributing a notional term to the initial lease. The provision artificially inflates the initial term of the lease under consideration - on the facts before us, from five to twenty-five years. 
In fact, the crucial question in this case as to whether the singular should be taken to include the plural does not relate to the word 'lease' but to the phrase 'any term' in section 6(1)(b). In our opinion, both in common parlance and under section 8 (b) of the Interpretation Act, this should be construed as 'any term or terms'.
We agree with Mr Smallbone that there is no necessary correlation between large retailers and leases for long periods of time. Mr Murr's argument that such a correlation exists and provides guidance as to the interpretation of section 6(1)(b) is not persuasive. 
We agree with the parties that the two Tribunal decisions suffered from the defects identified in their submissions. We also accept their claim that the second decision must be declared void on the ground that at the time when it was delivered the Tribunal was functus officio. But since (a) the substantive order that we would make is the same as was made in the Tribunal's first decision and (b) its error was of a procedural nature only, we see little point in formally setting aside this order and substituting an order which is in the same terms. In these circumstances, it is sufficient for us, having noted the defect in the procedure adopted by the Tribunal when preparing and delivering the first decision, to record our conclusion that its order was correct in law and to dismiss Pyrmont Point's appeal against this order.
At the end of the appeal hearing, Mr Smallbone advised us that his client, if successful, would seek costs. He expressed the opinion that any costs order that we made would have to be based on clauses 6.6 and 6.7 of the Second Lease. We are not convinced of this. We incline to the view that since the Tribunal has jurisdiction to determine whether it possesses jurisdiction to hear and determine any application made to it under the RL Act, it must also have jurisdiction, under section 60 of the NCAT Act, with regard to the costs associated with the present hearing on the matter of jurisdiction. If this is correct, any application for costs must be decided in accordance with this section, which supersedes any contractual provision as to the costs of Tribunal proceedings contained in the relevant lease.
We add the observation that since the parties agreed that the two Tribunal decisions were both defective, any claim by the successful Respondent that the Appellant should not have instituted appeal proceedings would seem difficult to substantiate.
We give the following direction regarding costs. Any application by the Respondent for the costs of these appeal proceedings must be filed and served within 28 days of this decision. The Appellant must file and serve its submissions in reply within a further 28 days. The matter will then be decided 'on the papers', pursuant to section 50(2) of the NCAT Act.
############# I'm default separator ##########97
CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL - appeal from consent orders made by theConsumer and Commercial Division - whether Tribunal compliedwith s 59 of theCivil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 when making orders to give effect toan agreed settlement - whether there are any other grounds on which consentorders should beset aside
Ms Loch, who is a social housing tenant, has appealed against consent orders made by the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal on 16 June 2014. Those orders were that the rent "abate" for 13 weeks and that the landlord, New South Wales Land and Housing Corporation, give Ms Loch at least 2 days' notice of any requirement to access the premises for inspection or repairs. 
Ms Loch may appeal on a question of law but requires permission or "leave" from the Appeal Panel to appeal on other grounds: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act), s 80. 
The landlord applied for the appeal to be dismissed as frivolous or vexatious or otherwise misconceived or lacking in substance: NCAT Act, s 55(1)(b). 
Ms Loch applied to the Tribunal under s 190 of the Residential Tenancies Act 2010
The matter was listed for hearing on 16 June 2014 at Tweed Heads. On the day of the hearing the Tribunal invited the parties to attempt to resolve the matter by conciliation. A representative of NSW Land and Housing Corporation made an offer to Ms Loch that the proceedings be resolved by an agreement that:
After this offer had been conveyed, Ms Loch attempted to telephone the Tenants Advice and Advocacy Service but was not able to make contact. She went back into the hearing room. The Tribunal Member gave her a further opportunity to telephone the Tenants Advice and Advocacy Service. Again Ms Loch was unable to make contact. She then told the Member that she would accept the offer of settlement. 
Ms Loch signed a written agreement and the Tribunal made the following orders:
Ms Loch says that she was confused and intimidated by the conciliation with the NSW Land and Housing Corporation and became upset and disoriented. She says that as she was walking down the steps outside the building after the hearing, she realised that because she was paying $100 a week in rent, the amount she would receive would be approximately $1300 and not $3,000 as she had assumed. She returned to the hearing room to ask for the orders to be revoked. The Member told her that it was not possible and that she could seek a re-hearing or appeal. The Member added that she should get advice. 
Ms Loch has appealed on a question of law and has asked for leave to appeal on other grounds: NCAT Act, s 80(2)(b). In relation to appeals from the Consumer and Commercial Division, leave to appeal on grounds other than a question of law can only be granted in the limited circumstances set out in Schedule 4, cl 12: 
A consent order is an order of the Tribunal and is binding on the parties in the same way as a decision given after a contested hearing: Kinch v Walcott [1929] AC 483; Frackelton v McQueen; Re a Solicitor [1910] St R Qd 1. It is an "internally appealable decision" as defined in s 32 of the NCAT Act.
It is not surprising, since Ms Loch is self-represented, that she has not articulated the grounds of appeal in a way that clearly identifies a question of law. While the Appeal Panel must remain impartial, we intervened in an attempt to ensure that the real issues in dispute were determined justly, quickly and cheaply: NCAT Act, s 36(1). In this case that involved considering whether the Consumer and Commercial Division made any error of law which would require that the appeal be allowed: Barghouthi v Transfield Pty ltd  [2002] FCA 666 at  [10]; XYZ v State Trustees Limited & Anor [2006] VSC 444 at  [43]. We should also determine whether leave should be granted to appeal on grounds other than a question of law.
Two potential grounds of appeal which we have identified are non-compliance with s 59 of the NCAT Act and the possibility that Ms Loch was subjected to undue influence, duress or misrepresentation in agreeing to settle her claim. We will deal with each of those matters in turn.
The powers of the Tribunal to make orders giving effect to any agreed settlement reached between the parties are set out in s 59 of the NCAT Act. 
We gave the parties a copy of this provision at the hearing because neither party had referred to it in their written submissions. 
Rule 37 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014
The Tribunal complied with s 59(1)(a) of the NCAT Act. The terms of the settlement were in writing, signed by both parties and lodged with the Tribunal. Whether or not the Tribunal complied with s 59(1)(b) is a more complicated issue. 
When making orders giving effect to any agreed settlement, the Tribunal is under a statutory obligation to ensure that it only makes orders that are within its power to make. As well as being codified in s 59(1)(b), this is a fundamental principle of the common law: Thomson Australia Holdings Pty Ltd v Trade Practices Commission (1981) 148 CLR 150 at 163.
Ms Loch's application to the Tribunal seeking compensation was made under s 190 of the Residential Tenancies Act. That provision applies to alleged breaches of a residential tenancy agreement. The orders that the Tribunal is empowered to make for such a breach are those listed in s 187: 
NSW Land and Housing Corporation submitted that the Tribunal's first order relating to rent abatement was either "an order for the payment of an amount of money" under s 187(1)(c) or "an order as to compensation" under s 187(1)(d). 
The order was not "an order for the payment of an amount of money" because no monetary amount is mentioned in the order. Consequently, to comply with s 59(1)(b) of the NCAT Act, the first order must meet the description of "an order as to compensation". 
That phrase has been the subject of very little judicial consideration and, as far as we are aware, none on the issue of whether a rent abatement order is "an order as to compensation". The cases have focused on questions such as whether damages for disappointment, stress and anxiety come with the meaning of that phrase: Free v Thomas [2009] NSWSC 642 at  [19]; Blackington Pty Limited v Leonard Hogg  [2007] NSWSC 266 at  [47].
Section 187(2) provides a non-exhaustive list of the kinds of matters for which compensation can be awarded. That list includes breach of a residential tenancy agreement. The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary defines "compensation" as "recompense for loss or damage". The words "as to" have been interpreted by the High Court when determining the meaning of a similar phrase, "an order as to costs": Re JJT; Ex Parte Victoria Legal Aid [1998] HCA 44. Gaudron J at [2] interpreted that phrase more broadly than the phrase "an order for costs". Kirby J at [41] also made the point that in the absence of a legislative indication to the contrary, that phrase should not be construed narrowly.
The first order was for the rent to "abate" for 13 weeks. Rent "abates' under s 43(2) as a matter of law if residential premises under a residential tenancy agreement are: 
Given the specific circumstances in which rent abates under s 43, the Tribunal's decision to express the order in terms of an abatement of rent was unorthodox. The Member was not bound by the terms of the parties' written agreement and could have made orders in terms consistent with, but not identical to, the terms of the agreed settlement: NCAT Act, s 59(1)(b). 
Nevertheless, the term "order as to compensation" should be interpreted broadly. As long as the purpose of the order is to recompense the tenant for loss or damage in accordance with what is claimed in the application, the order will be "an order as to compensation". The order does not have to be expressed as a monetary amount. 
The Tribunal had power to make the order that it made in this case and there has been no breach of s 59(1)(b). Ms Loch's appeal on this ground is dismissed.
At common law, the grounds for setting aside a consent order are the same as those for setting aside the agreement on which it is based: Bernard Cairns, Australian Civil Procedure (8th ed, 2009 Law Book Co) at 418. In Harvey v Phillips [1956] HCA 27;  (1956) 95 CLR 235, the High Court said, at 243-4, that:
These are also ground which may lead the Appeal Panel to conclude that it should set aside a consent order. 
If a party intends to rely on grounds such as duress, undue influence or misrepresentation, it will be necessary to provide evidence of the facts which support that ground. Ms Loch provided some very limited evidence in her Notice of Appeal. She elaborated on that evidence at the hearing. Mr Ford, an advocate and investigator from NSW Land and Housing Corporation, also gave evidence.
We have summarised the evidence below noting any areas of dispute:  (1) Before the hearing Ms Loch felt stressed because the taxi was late, she was attempting to photocopy documents for the hearing and she was accompanied by her son who has Asperger's.
We find that Ms Loch felt flustered at the beginning of the hearing and was not able to contact the Tenants Advice and Advocacy Service. She wanted to speak to Mr Eggins because she felt comfortable with him. There was a reasonable explanation for Mr Ford refusing to allow Ms Loch to speak to Mr Eggins. None of these matters constitute duress, undue influence or misrepresentation.
In view of Mr Ford's denials and the absence of any corroborating evidence, we are not satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that he said 'take it or leave it' or acted in a 'smart-aleck' manner. We are satisfied that Ms Loch interpreted his communications as being belittling and demeaning, but even if that is how she felt, we are not satisfied, from an objective point of view, that Mr Ford applied duress or undue influence in an attempt to get her to agree to the offer of settlement. She signed the agreement voluntarily. 
Ms Loch assumed that the compensation amounted to $3,000 but no-one misled her by telling her that was the figure. She was asked how much she was paying in rent either during the negotiation or when appearing before the Member. While it is unfortunate that the precise amount of the settlement was not stated in the written agreement or the orders, no-one misrepresented to her that she would be receiving $3,000.
We accept that one reason Ms Loch accepted the payment of the money, rather than complaining straight away was that she had received advice that doing so would not affect her appeal rights.
Ms Loch feels aggrieved and regretful because she made a decision that she does not consider to be in her best interests. While she did not have the benefit of independent legal advice at the time, her decision to settle her claim was made voluntarily. It did not involve any undue influence, duress or misrepresentation on the part of the Tribunal, Mr Ford or any other officer of NSW Land and Housing Corporation.
We are not satisfied that the Tribunal made an error of law or that there has been a substantial miscarriage of justice because the consent orders were not "fair and equitable". In those circumstances the appeal on a question of law is dismissed and leave is refused for Ms Loch to appeal on other grounds.
Each party applied for costs. Under s 60 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act, the general rule is that parties pay their own costs. There must be "special circumstances" justifying an award of costs before the Appeal Panel will make a costs order.
NSW Land and Housing Corporation submitted that costs should be awarded under s 60(3)(e) because Ms Loch's appeal is misconceived or lacking in substance. Ms Loch submitted that the NSW Land and Housing Corporation should pay her costs because no-one told her that the appeal would be heard in Sydney and she is out of pocket in relation to her travel expenses.
While Ms Loch's appeal has been dismissed, we did not summarily dismiss it as lacking in substance or misconceived. If Ms Loch had been able to prove that Mr Ford said the words she attributed to him or acted in the way she alleged, the Appeal Panel may have found that there was an error of law or a substantial miscarriage of justice justifying leave being granted. NSW Land and Housing Corporation's application for costs is refused.
The fact that Ms Loch felt obliged to travel to Sydney for the hearing is not a basis on which NSW Land and Housing Corporation should be ordered to pay her travel costs. Her application for costs is also refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########98
CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL -adequacy of notice - refusal ofadjournment applications - appeal against consent orders - proceduralfairness
Mr Walker is the co-owner of residential premises in Pyrmont with Ms Bartlett. He has appealed against a consent order made by the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal on 11 August 2014. The order was that he and Ms Bartlett be paid $925 from the bond that their tenant had lodged with the Rental Bond Board and that the tenant be paid the balance, which amounted to about $1800. 
Mr Walker is seeking an order that, instead of $925, he should be paid at least $2,800, which is the full amount of the bond. He makes that claim because he says that the tenant damaged the premises. 
The tenant, Paloma International Pty Ltd, first applied to the Consumer and Commercial Division for a refund of the bond on 15 July 2014. On 24 July 2014 the Tribunal dismissed that application because no one representing Paloma attended the hearing. Ms Rimes who was an employee of the real estate agency which managed the premises, had appeared on behalf of Mr Walker and Ms Bartlett. 
Four days later on 28 July 2014, Paloma applied a second time for the bond to be refunded. Mr Walker found out about the hearing on 6 August 2014, five days before it was scheduled to take place. He, his co-owner Ms Bartlett and the managing agent, Ms Rimes, each applied for the hearing on 11 August 20014 to be adjourned because they said they could not attend on that date. Ms Bartlett's adjournment application, which was the first application the Tribunal received, was refused on the same day. No formal decision was made in relation to the other applications.
Ms Rimes then arranged for another person, Ms Beck, to attend the hearing on behalf of Mr Walker and Ms Bartlett. The Tribunal refused Ms Beck's application for an adjournment but she participated in a conciliation conference and ultimately agreed to settle the matter. The Tribunal made consent orders in accordance with that agreement. 
Mr Walker is aggrieved by the Tribunal's consent order for four reasons. Firstly he says that Ms Rimes was not authorised to act on his behalf. Secondly he says that neither he nor Ms Rimes received the Notice of Hearing and they only found out that the hearing was on 5 days in advance. Thirdly, neither he nor Ms Rimes was available to attend at such short notice and their applications to have the hearing adjourned were refused or not considered. Finally, the person Ms Rimes sent to the hearing, Ms Beck, did not understand the background to the tenancy dispute. 
According to Mr Walker, his managing agent, Ms Rimes, stopped working for him on 19 April 2014. He says the only reason he used her for the hearing was because no one from the Tribunal would tell him who else he could use to recover the bond. He added that the person who attended the hearing, Ms Beck, had no knowledge of what had taken place during the three years of the lease.
When applying for an adjournment by email on 10 August 2014, Mr Walker wrote that no-one could appear on behalf of the owners at the hearing because, Ms Rimes, was unavailable. He stated that his only alternative was to send a third party who "has no previous knowledge of all the damage made by the tenants". Ms Rimes wrote to the Tribunal on 11 June 2014, the day of the hearing, stating that she authorised Ms Beck to act on her behalf.
Despite Mr Walker's assertions, we are satisfied that Ms Rimes was his agent and that he and Ms Bartlett authorised her to act on his behalf in the proceedings. Mr Walker also knew that because the adjournment applications had not been granted, Ms Rimes would arrange for someone else to attend the hearing on his behalf. We come to that conclusion because Ms Rimes attended the Tribunal on Mr Walker's behalf in relation to the first application and when requesting an adjournment Mr Walker did not say that Ms Rimes was not his agent. Instead, he said that she was unavailable and that he did not want a person who did not understand the history of the matter to attend. 
When Paloma made the second application to the Tribunal, it named as Respondent "William Anthony Burnell ", the managing agent recorded on the residential tenancy agreement, at an address in Enmore Road. 
On 31 July 2014 the Registrar posted a Notice of Hearing to the managing agent at the Enmore Road address. Although the Notice of Hearing was posted to the correct address, Ms Rimes was apparently in the process of moving and did not receive it. 
While it is correct that Mr Walker was not personally served with the Notice of Hearing, the Registrar served the Notice of Hearing at the last known address of the managing agent: Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (NSW), Cl 13(2)(b)(ii). The managing agent did not receive that postal notification but she subsequently became aware of the hearing date on 6 August 2014 and informed Mr Walker the same day. 
Allowing for four working days for the Notice of Hearing to be delivered after it was posted on 31 July 2014, the recipient would be presumed to have received it on 6 August 2014: Interpretation Act 1987 (NSW), s 76(1)(b). Mr Walker acknowledges that by 6 August 2014, Ms Rimes had told him that the substantive hearing was scheduled for 11 August 2014. As it turns out, Mr Walker had the same period of notice as he would have had if he had been served with the Notice of Hearing at his address or if his managing agent had received it by post at the Enmore Road address. Either way both would have been on notice of the hearing by 6 August 2014. In those circumstances, we are satisfied that the Tribunal complied with its obligation to notify the parties of the date, time and place of the hearing.
On 7 August 2014 Mr Walker's co-owner, Ms Bartlett, wrote to the Tribunal advising that she and Mr Walker were in Darwin and that Ms Rimes would be in Adelaide on the date of the hearing. She requested an adjournment stating that, "I have not been able to speak with our agent today as she is not in her office but I have emailed her and left a message on her mobile and requested that she sends you details of her flight".
A Tribunal Member refused to adjourn the proceedings and Ms Bartlett was notified by email on the same day, 7 August 2014. The email noted that the landlords had previously been represented by the managing agent and there was "no evidence establishing why the managing agent cannot attend the hearing."
Later on the same day at 2.12 pm and 6.14 pm respectively, Ms Rimes and Mr Walker emailed the Tribunal seeking an adjournment. Having received no response to his email, Mr Walker emailed again on 10 August 2014, the day before the hearing. He acknowledged that a Registry officer had told Ms Rimes that the person attending the hearing could request an adjournment. 
On the day of the hearing Ms Beck represented Mr Walker and Ms Bartlett and Mr Rajah represented the tenant, Paloma. Ms Beck applied for an adjournment but the Tribunal refused that application. The Tribunal gave no written reasons for that decision. 
After the Tribunal had refused Ms Beck's application for an adjournment, the parties engaged in settlement discussions. Ms Beck signed a "Conciliation Agreement Form" stating that, "in full and final settlement, the Rental Bond Board is to pay 'the landlord' $925 and that any balance of the bond is to be paid to the tenant." 
Mr Walker has certain rights to appeal against an "internally appealable decision": Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2014 (NSW), (NCAT Act), s 80(2) and s 32. The decisions against which Mr Walker has appealed are the decisions to refuse him, his co-owner and his agent an adjournment and the decision to make a consent order. Mr Walker also claims to have been denied procedural fairness because he did not have adequate notice of the hearing and consequently did not have a reasonable opportunity to prepare his case. 
The adjournment decision is an interlocutory decision and can only be appealed if the Appeal Panel gives its permission: NCAT Act, s 80(2)(a). The consent order is a final decision and Mr Walker may appeal against that decision on any "question of law". He needs the Appeal Panel's permission to appeal on any other ground: NCAT Act, s 80(2)(b). In relation to appeals from the Consumer and Commercial Division, leave can only be granted in the limited circumstances set out in Schedule 4, cl 12: 
The Tribunal is bound by the rules of procedural fairness: NCAT Act, s 38(2). In particular, the Tribunal must "take such measures as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the parties have a reasonable opportunity to be heard or otherwise have their submissions considered in the proceedings": NCAT Act, s 38(5)(c). Inadequate notice of a hearing and the refusal of a reasonable request for an adjournment may amount to a denial of procedural fairness depending on the circumstances: Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Bhardwaj [2002] HCA 11;  (2002) 209 CLR 597 at 611  [40];  [2002] HCA 11; Minister for Immigration and Citizenship v Li [2013] HCA 18;  (2013) 87 ALJR 618; 297 ALR 225. 
The guiding principle of the NCAT Act and the procedural rules in their application to proceedings in the Tribunal is "to facilitate the just, quick and cheap resolution of the real issues in the proceedings": s 36. In addition, the practice and procedure of the Tribunal should be implemented in such a way "that the cost to the parties and the Tribunal is proportionate to the importance and complexity of the subject-matter of the proceedings": s 36(4). 
The amount of time that is adequate for a person to prepare for a hearing varies depending on factors such as the nature of the proceedings including its complexity, how the rights of the parties are affected, the amount at stake and any urgency. This case involved a dispute about whether the money the tenant had paid by way of a bond should be returned to the tenant at the end of the tenancy or whether some or all of it should be paid to the landlord for outstanding rent or as compensation for damage. The total amount involved was about $2,800. It was not a complex case. The amount of money in dispute was relatively low and the consequences for the parties strictly financial. We acknowledge that there was no particular urgency. 
While 5 days is a relatively short period of time to prepare for a non-urgent hearing, because Ms Rimes had already prepared for a hearing on the same issues a few weeks earlier and because the issues were not complex nor the amount at stake particularly high, the notice period was adequate.
The application for an adjournment was refused on the basis that the managing agent had represented the landlords on 24 July 2014 and there was "no evidence establishing why the managing agent cannot attend the hearing." The subsequent email applications were not considered because a decision had already been made to refuse the adjournment and no further evidence had been provided in support of the application. The Appeal Panel does not know whether any oral reasons were given for the refusal of the adjournment application on the day of the hearing. 
Ms Bartlett wrote to the Tribunal advising that she and Mr Walker were in Darwin and that Ms Rimes would be in Adelaide on the date of the hearing. Although she said she had requested Ms Rimes to provide details of her flight to the Tribunal, apparently those details were not provided. Without proof of Ms Rimes unavailability, the Tribunal decided to refuse the application. In all the circumstances, that was a reasonable basis on which to refuse an adjournment. It was also apparent to the Tribunal that although Mr Walker did not want another person who had less knowledge of the circumstances than Ms Rimes, to represent him, that could be arranged. We also consider the refusal of the adjournment at the hearing to be reasonable in circumstances where Ms Beck appeared and was authorised to represent Mr Walker and Ms Bartlett. 
Leave is refused for the appeal against the interlocutory decisions to go ahead. 
The order that the Tribunal made was that:
The making of a consent order absolves the Tribunal from the duty to make a decision on the merits of the case: Chamberlain v Deputy Commissioner of Taxation [1988] HCA 21;  (1988) 164 CLR 502 at 510-11; [1988] HCA 21;  78 ALR 271 at 276. Nevertheless, a consent order made under s 59 of the NCAT Act, is an "internally appealable decision" as defined in s 32 of the NCAT Act. The Tribunal will have made an error of law in making such an order if it fails to comply with that provision. 
Section 59 of sets out the Tribunal's power to make orders to give effect to any agreed settlement reached by the parties:
While Mr Walker did not submit that the Tribunal had failed to comply with s 59, we are satisfied that the terms of the agreed settlement were in writing, signed on behalf of Mr Walker and Ms Bartlett by Ms Beck (and by the Respondent's agent) and that the Tribunal had the power to make that order. 
A consent order may be set aside if it is affected by matters such as fraud, mistake, duress or undue influence: Harvey v Phillips [1956] HCA 27;  (1956) 95 CLR 235 at 243-4. There was no suggestion of anything of that kind in this case. But Mr Walker did submit that neither Ms Rimes nor Ms Beck were authorised to act on his behalf. We do not need to decide whether this is a basis on which the consent order should be set aside because we have found that they were authorised to act as his agents. 
The remaining question is whether the Tribunal's consent order should be set aside on any ground other than a question of law. The only possible ground is that Mr Walker may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision of the Tribunal was not "fair and equitable": NCAT Act, Sch 4, Cl 12.
The decision of the Tribunal was to make the orders to which the parties, or their agents on their behalf, had consented. The Tribunal complied with s 59 when making that order and there is nothing unfair or inequitable about that decision. 
############# I'm default separator ##########99
-CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL (NSW) - appeal lodged out of time -principles applicable to out of time appeals
In this matter the appellants seek to appeal against a decision of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal (the Tribunal) of 28 July 2014. 
The first appellant was the first respondent in the proceedings before the Tribunal. He was the licensed builder of a property at Abbotsford New South Wales (the property). The second appellant, which was the second respondent in the proceedings before the Tribunal, was the developer. The respondent, which was the applicant in the proceedings before the Tribunal, is the successor in title of the property. 
The respondent sought damages for defective work. After a hearing lasting three days the Tribunal ordered the appellants, jointly and/or severally, to pay the respondent $201,725. On 28 July 2014 the Tribunal also ordered the appellants to pay the respondent's costs on a party/party basis, as agreed or assessed. 
The Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013 (NSW) (NCAT Act) sets out the basis upon which appeals from decisions of the Tribunal may arise. Under s 80(2)(b) an appeal may be made as of right on any question of law, or with leave of the Appeal Panel, on any other grounds. 
The appellants' grounds of appeal are set out in Annexure B to the notice of appeal. There are 14 matters raised said to be errors of law. However the appellants also state that the Tribunal's decision was not fair and equitable. This is a reference to Schedule 4, clause 12(a) of the NCAT Act, which provides that an Appeal Panel may grant leave to appeal if satisfied the appellant may have suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice because the decision of the Tribunal under appeal was not fair and equitable.
The characterisation of the ground of appeal as a question of law has significant consequences: a party may appeal as of right on a question of law; otherwise the party requires leave of the Appeal Panel. 
The appellants seek an extension of time in which to file the appeal. Pursuant to regulation 25(4)(c) of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014, unless the Tribunal grants an extension under s 41 of the NCAT Act, an appeal must be lodged within 28 days from the day on which the appellant was notified of the decision or given reasons for the decision (whichever is the later). 
The Tribunal published the decision under appeal on 21 May 2014. On 17 June 2014 the appellants appealed to the District Court of NSW. On 24 July 2014 the respondent filed a notice of motion in that appeal seeking to strike out the appeal. The appeal to the District Court was dismissed on 29 August 2014. The appeal to this Appeal Panel was filed on 2 September 2014. 
As noted, unless an extension of time is granted, appeals need to be filed within 28 days. The appellants have not submitted that they received notice of the decision at any time other than the date the decision was delivered. Accordingly an appeal to the Appeal Panel should have been filed by 18 June 2014. The notice of appeal having been filed on 2 September 2014, was filed almost 11 weeks out of time. 
In Jackson v NSW Land and Housing Corporation  [2014] NSWCATAP 22 the Appeal Panel considered the principles which govern the granting of an extension of time. The Appeal Panel stated at [22]:
The appellants' submissions as to an extension of time are that: a significant injustice will be caused to them if an extension of time is not granted; the length of the delay is not significant and is approximately 10 weeks;  the appeal to the District Court was filed within time; the reason for the delay in bringing the internal appeal to the Appeal Tribunal was due to confusion as to the interpretation of clause 7 of Schedule 1 of the NCAT Act, "which remains untested in the District Court and no authority which binds the District Court";  the respondent has been aware of the grounds of appeal and the evidence relied on; the appeal has substantial merits; and there is no significant prejudice to the respondent.
In summary the respondent submits that time should not be extended unless the application for leave to appeal has prospects of success: Jackamarra v Krakouer (1998) 195 CLR 516 at [7]. It submits that as the appellants do not have reasonable prospects of success in their application for leave to appeal, an extension of time should not be granted. 
In Jackson, the Appeal Panel, in considering whether or not to grant an extension of time, highlighted four matters. The first matter was the length of delay. In Jackson the delay was approximately five weeks. It should be noted that Jackson was an appeal in respect of a residential tenancy decision, where only 14 days is allowed in which to file an internal appeal; see rule 25(4)(b) of the Rules. The Appeal Panel considered that, in the circumstances of that case, the length of delay did not tell substantially in favour of either granting or not granting the extension of time sought. We are of the view here, where 28 days is allowed in which to file an internal appeal, that a delay of nearly 11 weeks weighs slightly towards an extension of time not being granted.
The second matter was the explanation for the delay. Here, at all times the appellants were represented by legal practitioners. For whatever reason, an appeal was made to the incorrect forum, that is, to the District Court rather than the Appeal Panel. The District Court had ceased to hear appeals from the Tribunal on 1 January 2014. We do not understand or accept the appellants' submission that the reason for the delay in bringing the internal appeal to the Appeal Tribunal was due to confusion as to the interpretation of clause 7 of Schedule 1 of the NCAT Act. That clause deals with the consideration of pending proceedings before former tribunals at the time the NSW Civil and Administrative Tribunal came into existence. The appellants, no doubt on advice, simply made a mistake as to the appropriate forum. They did not correct that mistake even after the respondent wrote to them advising them that were in the wrong forum.
We are not satisfied that the fact the appellants commenced their appeal in the wrong forum is an understandable explanation for the delay in filing this appeal.
The third matter considered in Jackson was the prejudice to the respondent. Here the respondent rightly submits that it is being denied the fruits of the decision of the Tribunal handed down on 20 May 2014, together with the costs order in its favour on 5 August 2014. It further notes that, in addition to being awarded the costs of the proceedings in the Tribunal, the District Court ordered the appellants to pay its costs on an indemnity basis, as it was established that the respondent had instructed its solicitors to write to the appellants informing them that they had commenced proceedings in the incorrect jurisdiction. 
The appellants' submissions do not address the question of prejudice to the respondent. We are satisfied that the respondent would be prejudiced if an extension of time were granted. That prejudice may be addressed by an award of costs, although we note the remarks of the plurality in Aon Risk Services Aust Pty Ltd v Australian National University [2009] HCA 27;  (2009) 239 CLR 175 at  [100] that justice cannot always be measured in money and that a judge is entitled to weigh in the balance the strain the litigation imposes upon litigants; and their approval (also at [100]) of Bowen LJ's statement in Cropper v Smith  [1884] 26 Ch D 700 that:
The fourth and final matter considered by the Appeal Panel in Jackson was the appellants' prospects of success on appeal. In our view this is the most important of the matters required to be considered in this case. As noted above the appellants submit that the Tribunal made 14 errors. The appellants divide these errors into three groups, namely: errors as to jurisdiction (grounds (a), (b), (c), (d) and (h) of the notice of appeal); errors as to the correct defendant (grounds (i), (j) and (k) of the notice of appeal); and errors as to evidence (grounds (e), (f), (g), (l), (m) and (n)) of the notice of appeal).
We will consider each group of errors in turn. We will not consider, for the moment, the question whether these errors were errors of law or matters which would require leave to appeal. 
The appellants' grounds of appeal on this issue are stated as follows:
The appellants submit that on the first day of the hearing, 26 February 2014, they applied for an adjournment to 4pm that day to permit them to adduce further evidence on the question of jurisdiction, specifically whether the respondent's claim had been brought within the time required by s 48K of the Home Building Act 1989
The appellants submit that this ground of appeal represents "an attempt to legitimately 'dress up' a refusal to grant an adjournment as a purported denial of procedural fairness." It submits that the appellants had more than a reasonable opportunity to prepare and serve evidence on the issue of jurisdiction, in fact more than two years. It submits that the Tribunal's refusal to permit further uncertain evidence on the first day of the final hearing was the correct decision based on any view of the authorities, including Aon Risk Services Aust Pty Ltd v Australian National University [2009] HCA 27;  (2009) 239 CLR 175.
The respondents further submit that on day one of the hearing it was apparent that the appellants were uncertain as to what evidence they would be leading on the jurisdictional issue, and that counsel for the appellants indicated that it would take a further 48 hours to obtain further documents. The appellants could not explain what documentary evidence would be obtained or how that evidence might be relevant to the issue of jurisdiction.
In reply, the appellants submit that Aon Risk "is not a mantra preventing the true determination of matters actually in dispute but even more so when the principal matter is the very jurisdiction of the Tribunal purporting to apply Aon". They submit that the Tribunal must determine jurisdiction before embarking on any other examination of the matters in dispute, and to do otherwise is to act ultra vires. They emphasise that the Tribunal cannot give itself jurisdiction by a wrong decision: R v Small Claims Tribunal and Dean; Ex parte RACV General Insurance Pty Ltd [1981] VicRp 60;  [1981] VR 602.
It is useful to set out the Tribunal's findings on this issue. The Tribunal stated:
The appellants' were unable to specifically identify what further evidence it proposed to lead on jurisdiction and why it would take a further 48 hours to obtain whatever undisclosed documents were apparently relevant to the jurisdictional point. In those circumstances, the respondent submits that having regard to the principles set out by the High Court in Aon Risk, the Tribunal's refusal to adjourn the proceedings was an entirely proper and reasonable decision to make.
We agree. As the plurality stated in Aon Risk:
The appellants also assert that they were denied procedural fairness when the Tribunal refused to adjourn proceedings and permit further evidence. We accept the respondent's submission that there are authorities which support the general proposition that simple refusal to grant an adjournment, in circumstances where the party asserting a denial of procedural fairness wishes to rely upon late evidence and has not complied with directions, may be a denial of procedural fairness. 
But, in this case, it appears to the Appeal Panel that the appellants have misconstrued the Tribunal's finding as to jurisdiction. The appellants appear to submit that the Tribunal failed to actively consider whether or not it had jurisdiction to hear and determine the matter. As paragraphs [12] to [20] of the Tribunal's reasons make plain, the Tribunal did consider the question and made a decision based on the evidence before it. In the circumstances we are not satisfied that the merits of the "jurisdiction" ground of appeal favours an extension of time in which to appeal. 
The appellants' grounds of appeal on this issue are stated as follows:
The Tribunal's findings on this issue are set out in paragraph [35] to [45] of the decision. The Tribunal noted that the first named respondent, Mr Sayhoun (here the first-named appellant) was the builder, and that the only evidence before the Tribunal naming him as the builder was a construction certificate attached to a statement of Mr Albert Abi-Khattar. The Tribunal accepted that, by reference to Mr Sayhoun's licence number appearing on the construction certificate, Mr Sayhoun had been correctly identified in his personal capacity as the builder. There was no other evidence to the contrary before the Tribunal.
On the third and final day of the hearing counsel appearing for both appellants submitted that the builder had been wrongly identified. The appellants note that it was put to Mr Abi-Khattar in cross-examination that the builder was Mr Sayhoun. He agreed. The appellants wished to explore his response in re-examination, but the tribunal refused to allow this. They submit that the Tribunal erred in not permitting re-examination on this issue. 
The Tribunal considered that it would be contrary to the principles enunciated in Aon Risk to allow the appellants to amend their case on the final day and to run a case that had never previously been raised.
The respondent submits that this ground of appeal lacks any merit as it overlooks the fact that the weight of the evidence demonstrated that Mr Sayhoun was the builder. It also submits that it cannot be said that any miscarriage of justice occurred as a result of the Tribunal refusing to allow re-examination on this issue. 
We agree. In the circumstances we are not satisfied that the merits of this ground of appeal favour an extension of time in which to appeal.
In this group of errors, the appellants raise two matters. The first is a misunderstanding of the principles of Makita v Sprowles  [2001] NSWCA 305 by excluding admissible evidence and admitting inadmissible evidence. The second is that the Tribunal erred in finding, without evidence, that the first appellant's solicitor was the brother of the appellants' expert. 
The appellants' grounds of appeal on the first issue are stated as follows:
These particular grounds are not developed in the appellants' submissions. Accordingly we do not consider that these grounds favour an extension of time within which to file the appeal.
The appellants' grounds of appeal on the second issue are stated as follows:
In brief submissions the appellants submit that the Tribunal erred in finding partiality in the appellants' expert witness in circumstances where there was no evidence to support that conclusion and where that finding was based on a totally incorrect premise. They submit that the Tribunal's finding at paragraph 52 of the reasons that Mr Shamir's brother was the solicitor acting for the appellants "clearly taints" the reasons for the decision. They submit that on this point alone the Appeal Panel should reconsider or order the rehearing of the proceedings. They submit that the conclusion made by the Tribunal was the conclusion that a reasonable Tribunal could not reach. 
The respondent submits that on the issue of quantum, the evidence of the respondent's expert was largely uncontested by the appellants' expert, particularly in relation to disputed fact items that were found by the Tribunal to exist. Therefore they submit there was no basis for appealing this aspect of the decision, particularly in circumstances where the appellants object to the respondent's expert evidence on quantum.
The respondent further submits that, in relation to liability, the tribunal outlined detailed reasons why, in respect of each defect item found to exist, it preferred the evidence of the respondent's experts over the evidence of the appellants' expert. The respondent submits that in those detailed reasons there was no reference to the fact of Mr Shamieh being the brother of the solicitor acting for the appellants and no basis to assert that the reasons of the Tribunal, or the reason supporting each finding of defects, was tainted by an earlier reference to the two gentlemen being brothers. Finally the respondent submits that the appellants have failed to explain how the reasons were tainted by such a reference. 
For the reasons put by the respondent, ware not satisfied that the merits of this ground of appeal favour an extension of time in which to appeal.
It appears to the Appeal Panel that the appellants have little if any prospects of success in an appeal based upon any of the grounds set out in the Notice of Appeal. Given that some of the other considerations also weigh against an extension of time being granted, it may be thought that the appellants should satisfy the Appeal Panel that their case has more substantial merit than merely being fairly arguable. In Tomko v Palasty (No 2) [2007] NSWCA 369, Hodgson JA, with whom Ipp JA agreed, stated at [14]:
This principle was followed and applied by the Administrative Decisions Tribunal of NSW in Molyneux v Chief Commissioner of State Revenue [2012] NSWADTAP 53 at  [58].
In the Appeal Panel's view the reason for the delay was less than satisfactory and there is obvious prejudice to the appellants. But even if that were not the case, we do not consider that the appellants' appeal has more substantial merit than being fairly arguable. 
For these reasons, the Appeal Panel makes the following orders: (1) The application for an extension of time in which to appeal is refused. 
############# I'm default separator ##########100
CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL (NSW) - appeal lodged out of time -principles applicable to out of time appeals
These appeals were heard on 10 December 2014. After a brief adjournment at the conclusion of the hearing the Appeal Panel announced to the parties the orders it proposed to make and accordingly made the orders set out on the cover page. The Appeal Panel informed the parties that its reasons would be published later. These are those reasons.
These reasons concern appeals brought by a tenant (Adelaide River Resources (NT) Pty Ltd) arising out of decisions of the Consumer and Commercial Division of the Tribunal with respect to a residential tenancy agreement in which the respondent to the appeal is the landlord.
At the hearing the tenant was represented by its director Mr Nicholas Byrne. The landlord was represented by her agent Ms Mary Hill.
There are two appeals. The first appeal (AP 14/46523) involves an appeal from two different decisions, respectively made on 18 June 2014 and 15 July 2014. The second appeal (AP 14/46542) involves an appeal from a decision made on 15 August 2014.
In respect of the first appeal, the tenant appeals from a decision of the Tribunal made on 15 July 2014 refusing the tenant's application to set aside (pursuant to Regulation 9 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Regulation 2013 (the Regulations)) a decision of the Tribunal made on 18 June 2014 in which the tenant was ordered to pay arrears of rent and water usage charges to the landlord. On the same day (18 June 2014) the Tribunal dismissed the tenant's separate application in proceedings RT 14/20558 by reason of the tenant not appearing at the Tribunal hearing. We will refer to these two appeals as the first appeal.
The appeal which we refer to as the second appeal arises out of a decision made on 15 August 2014 by which the residential tenancy agreement between the tenant and landlord was terminated.
The first appeal was commenced by a Notice of Appeal filed in the Tribunal on 14 August 2014 and for reasons which will be made clear later in these reasons that appeal was filed out of time. Accordingly, leave to appeal is required.
The second appeal was commenced by a Notice of Appeal filed in the Tribunal on 5 September 2014 and also appears to have been filed out of time. We will explain the chronology later in these reasons and deal with the question of whether leave to appeal is required.
The background to the first appeal is set out below.
The tenant received a notice from the Tribunal dated 22 May 2014 advising the tenant that the landlord's application (in which the tenant was the respondent) had been transferred to the Tribunal's Hurstville Registry and that a notice of hearing would be sent shortly. However, it appears from the landlord's contentions and the Tribunal's file that the notice of the 22 May 2014 was sent in error and was corrected by the issue of a second notice advising that the 22 May 2014 notice was sent in error. The tenant contends that the correcting notice was not received.
The Tribunal then sent a notice of listing advising the parties of the hearing on 18 June 2014 and that the venue would be the Tribunal's City Registry in Castlereagh Street Sydney. The tenant contends that it did not receive that notice of hearing and based upon a telephone enquiry following receipt of the incorrect notice, attended the Hurstville Registry on 18 June 2014.
In the result, the Tribunal made the orders referred to above in the absence of the tenant and, in addition, the Tribunal dismissed the tenant's separate application by reason of the non-appearance of the tenant.
The tenant then made an application to set aside the orders referred to above concerning the payment of rent arrears and water usage. That "set aside" application was refused. The basis for the refusal contained in the Member's decision published on 15 July 2014 was that:
The tenant now appeals from the decision of 15 July 2014 on the basis that it has suffered a substantial miscarriage of justice in that the decision was not fair and equitable and was made against the weight of evidence.
The Notice of Appeal does not state what case the tenant would have put had it been present at the Tribunal hearing on 18 June 2014. Similarly, the tenant does not assert that the application to set aside the decision of 18 June 2014 included an explanation of the case which the tenant might have put had the tenant been present on 18 June 2014.
However, at the appeal hearing the tenant informed the Appeal Panel that the tenant had complaints against the landlord arising out of alleged breaches by the landlord of obligations to repair and maintain the rented premises and that one consequence of the landlord's failure to maintain was the fact that the swimming pool leaked. That in turn resulted in the tenant being charged excessive water charges. The tenant wanted to raise those matters by way of defending the application which was heard on 18 June 2014. At the appeal hearing Mr Byrne acknowledged that the tenant had deliberately not paid rent and water charges on time because of the issues which it wanted to agitate against the landlord.
At the appeal hearing the parties were asked to indicate the current state of the amounts which each said was due and owing between them. The tenant's contention was that the rent had now been paid to 18 December 2014, but that water usage had not been paid because of the tenant's contentions that the amount charged was improper by reason of the matters referred to above. The landlord's representative contended that the rent currently outstanding amounted to $2,000 and that there was arrears of water usage charges in the sum of $1,802.74.
The second aspect of this first appeal concerned the order made by the Tribunal dismissing the tenant's application. That application concerned the tenant's claims that the landlord had failed in its duty to repair and maintain the rented premises.
The landlord opposed the first appeal and stated that the tenant owed the amounts the subject of the orders made on 18 June 2014.
The tenant's appeal from the decision of 15 July 2014 which refused the tenants application to set aside the orders made on 18 June 2014 is an appeal from a decision made by the Tribunal in exercise of a power conferred on the Tribunal by regulation 9 of the Regulations. The provisions of regulation 9(1) are as follows:
In this case the basis for the decision of 15 July 2014 was twofold. Firstly there was no evidence to demonstrate a change in venue and therefore no evidence of the basis for the tenant's mistake in attending the Hurstville Registry. Secondly, there was no evidence provided by the tenant of what other orders the Tribunal could have made.
For the purposes of this appeal the Appeal Panel accepts the tenant's explanation that Mr Byrne mistakenly attended the Hurstville Registry on 18 June 2014. That mistake was caused by the communication of 22 May 2014 from the Tribunal and, further, that the correcting communications from the Tribunal were not received by the tenant.
However, regulation 9(1)(b) requires the Tribunal to be satisfied that a party's absence resulted in the party's case not being adequately put to the Tribunal. The Member who refused the set aside application was clearly not so satisfied and indicated that finding in the brief reasons given for refusing the set aside application. Mr Byrne was not able to demonstrate to the Appeal Panel that the tenant had a case which was explained in the set aside application but which was not given due weight by the Member who refused the set aside application. The case which the tenant would have put to the Tribunal on 18 June 2014 (which was not included in the set aside application) was that the tenant had complaints against the landlord and had withheld the payment of rent and water charges. Those matters were also agitated in the separate application brought by the tenant.
Under the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 (NSW) (the RTA) tenants have obligations to pay rent and other charges agreed to be paid under the Residential Tenancies Agreement. Rent must be paid in accordance with s33 of the RTA and water usage must be paid in accordance with the provisions of s39 of the RTA. If tenants assert that they have claims against their landlord for breach of the landlord's obligations to repair and maintain, such claims do not provide a reason for the tenant to not pay rent and or water usage charges. Rather, the appropriate course, which in this case the tenant also adopted, is to commence a separate application for remedies by reason of the landlord's breach of its obligations.
Accordingly, it is not apparent to the Appeal Panel, and was not apparent to the Member who refused the set aside application, what the case of the tenant would have been, and which was not adequately put, at the Tribunal hearing on 18 June 2014.
In these circumstances, no basis has been established which would cause the Appeal Panel to consider it appropriate to conclude that the decision refusing the set aside application was made in error or has resulted in a substantial miscarriage of justice.
Therefore the appeal with respect to the decision of 15 July 2014 must be dismissed.
In addition, the appeal was not filed within the time required by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Rules 2014 (the Rules). Rule 25 provides for time limits to apply for the filing of appeals. Rule 25(4) provides that an appeal must be lodged in the case of an internal appeal against a decision made in residential proceedings within 14 days from the day in which the appellant was notified of the decision or given reasons for the decision (whichever is the later). These are residential proceedings. The time period may be extended upon application under section 41 of the Act. In this case the decision was made on 15 July 2014 and therefore the deadline for the filing of the appeal is arguably 29 July 2014. The appeal was lodged on 14 August 2014. The tenant states that it first received notice of the decision of 15 July 2014 on 21 July 2014 and, if so, then the deadline for the filing of the appeal would be 4 August 2014.
The tenant did not provide an explanation for the delay in filing the appeal. However, the appeal panel has given consideration to whether the time should be extended. The Tribunal has in previous cases outlined the issues which must be considered in considering whether time should be extended under section 41 (see Di Salvo v Leung  [2014] NSWCATAP 44). These matters include the length of the delay, the reason for the delay and the extent of any prejudice suffered by the respondent as well as the appellant's prospects of success (that is whether the appellant has a fairly arguable case). In addition the discretion to extend time can only be exercised in favour of an appellant or applicant upon proof that strict compliance with the rules will work an injustice.
The Appeal Panel's decision is not to extend time. In the context of residential proceedings the length of the delay is excessive, no adequate reason for the delay has been provided and the appellant's prospects of success are poor. In addition it is not apparent to the Appeal Panel that any injustice will occur by reason of the refusal of the Appeal Panel to give leave to extend the time for the filing of the appeal.
Accordingly, leave to appeal will be refused.
The second aspect of the first appeal concerns the decision to dismiss the tenant's application on 18 June 2014 by reason of the tenant's absence at the hearing.
At the Appeal Hearing, the Appeal Panel drew attention to the provisions of section 55 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2014 (the Act) which enables the Tribunal to dismiss an application by reason of the absence of the applicant and also, pursuant to section 55(2), enables the Tribunal to reinstate proceedings which have been dismissed upon a reasonable explanation being given.
The tenant's explanation in this case for its absence at the hearing of the tenants application has already been outlined and arises by reason of the tenants mistaken attendance at the Hurstville Registry. The landlord was not able to produce evidence that the tenant in fact had notice of the hearing at the Castlereagh Street Registry. In these circumstances, the Appeal Panel finds that the tenant's absence at the hearing can be reasonably explained and that the tenant's application should be reinstated for the reasons further explained in the following paragraph.
Unless the Tribunal extends time under s41 of the Act an application for reinstatement must be made within 7 days after the Tribunal dismissed the proceedings. Here the delay in seeking reinstatement was very long. However there is no evidence that the landlord will be prejudiced by the reinstatement. The merits of the application are not clear but it is the view of the Appeal Panel that an injustice may accrue to the tenant if reinstatement is not permitted. The time is extended under s41 and an order for reinstatement was made.
The tenant's representative contends that he first received notice of the hearing on 15 August 2014 by a Tribunal notice which was received on 13 August 2014. The notice from the Tribunal was dated 7 August 2014. The tenant applied by letter to the Tribunal dated 14 August 2014 for an adjournment until after 6 October 2014 on the basis that the tenant's representative (Mr Byrne) had already booked a flight overseas departing on the evening of 14 August 2014. That adjournment request was dealt with at the hearing on 15 August2014 and was refused.
The basis for the Tribunal's refusal of the adjournment application is stated in the Tribunal's reasons as follows:
At the appeal hearing the tenant's representative acknowledged that the tenant had two directors, one being Mr Byrne and the other being his wife. Mr Byrne stated that Mrs Byrne could not have attended the hearing on 15 August 2014 because she was not well equipped to deal with the issues that would arise at the hearing. No other explanation for her inability to attend was provided.
At the appeal hearing Mr Byrne was asked whether at the time of the hearing on 15 August 2014 the rent was up to date. His response was that the rent was "pretty close to being up to date" and that there were "some deductions for repairs and maintenance". In addition the Appeal Panel enquired of Mr Byrne as to what matters he would have put to the Tribunal had he been present on 15 August 2014. Again he said that he would have presented documents demonstrating the landlord's failure to repair and maintain the premises.
The tenant's submission was to the effect that the tenant had been denied an opportunity to be heard by reason of the inability of Mr Byrne to appear at the hearing and that the decision made as a consequence terminating the tenancy was not fair and equitable.
The Notice of Appeal referred to the fact that by reason of the tenant's absence at the hearing the tenant was not able to present evidence or supporting documentation. The Notice of Appeal suggests, and Mr Byrne confirmed at the appeal hearing, that this documentation and evidence concerned the tenant's allegations which are the subject of the tenant's application which will be reinstated.
In addition, at the appeal hearing the tenant submitted that there were ongoing negotiations between the parties for the sale of the tenanted premises to the tenant and that it would be unfair for the tenant to have to vacate the premises (pursuant to the termination order) only to return following becoming the purchaser of the premises.
The landlord's representative submitted that the landlord had issued a 90 day termination notice under section 85 of the RTA and there was no suggestion by the tenant that that notice was not valid. There was no defence which the tenant could have put to the Tribunal had the tenant been present at the hearing on 15 August 2014 and accordingly the appeal should be dismissed.
The opinion of the Appeal Panel is that the tenant was given an opportunity to be heard on 15 August 2014 but elected not to take up that opportunity. If the tenant's assertions are to be accepted the tenant had only two days' notice in which to arrange for representation at the hearing on 15 August 2014. No adequate explanation is given as to why the other director could not have appeared at the hearing and no explanation at all was given as to why another person could not have represented the tenant at the hearing on 15 August 2014.
In addition the adjournment application appears to have been premised upon the basis that only Mr Byrne could represent the tenant as the adjournment application was that the hearing be adjourned to a date after Mr Byrne's return from overseas. The tenant did not make an application for a short adjournment to enable someone else instead of Mr Byrne to attend an adjourned hearing before the Tribunal.
The tenant undoubtedly had a right to a reasonable opportunity to be heard. Previous decisions of the Appeal Panel of the Tribunal have confirmed that such an opportunity is to be acknowledged by the Tribunal in its proceedings (see Kline v NSW Land and Housing Corporation  [2014] NSWCATAP 41 at paragraphs 62 and 63). In this case the tenant had notice of the hearing and, notwithstanding the relatively short period of notice, there is no adequate explanation as to why someone could not have appeared for the tenant at the hearing. In coming to this conclusion the Appeal Panel has had regard to the requirements of procedural fairness and to the characteristics of such requirements as explained by Gleeson CJ in Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; ex parte Lam  [2003] HCA 6;  (2003) 214 CLR 1 at  [37] where the Chief Justice said that:
In this case a further consideration is the nature of the proceedings themselves. The landlord had commenced an application for termination of the tenancy following the issue of what is known as a "no grounds" notice of termination. Section 85 of the RTA provides:
It is relevant that in the case of a periodic agreement (and the tenant did not argue that this residential tenancy was not a periodic agreement) a landlord may, at any time, give a termination notice that specifies a termination date not earlier than 90 days after the date on which the notice is given.
If the landlord issues a notice in conformity with section 85 then the Tribunal "must" (see s85(3)) on application by a landlord, make a termination order if it is satisfied that a termination notice was given in accordance with this section and the tenant has not vacated the premises as required by the notice.
There was no submission made that the Tribunal had acted otherwise than in accordance with section 85(3). Rather, the tenant's primary point was the lack of notice of the hearing.
The tenant stated that it would not be fair for the termination order to remain in place because it was in negotiations with the landlord to purchase the property. The unfairness would arise if the tenant was successful in purchasing the property and, having vacated the property as a consequence of the termination order, would be required to incur both the expense of vacating and the expense of moving back in as the successful purchaser. Mr Byrne did not canvass the possibility in his submissions as to whether there would be unfairness to the landlord arising by permitting the tenant to stay in the property and then if the purchase did not proceed, the landlord may be obliged to commence further proceedings against the tenant to have the property vacated.
Essentially, the tenant's main submission is that there has been an error of law by a failure to afford the tenant procedural fairness in that the period of notice was inadequate and that an adjournment should have been granted as requested.
However, the Appeal Panel finds that the tenant was given a reasonable opportunity to be heard and that the adjournment application was reasonably refused. Furthermore, the Appeal Panel finds that no injustice has arisen by reason of the decision made on 15 August 2014 because the tenant has not been able to provide any submission which would lead to the possible conclusion that had the tenant been present on 15 August 2014 a different outcome would have been achieved.
Finally, the Appeal Panel notes that this appeal was filed on 5 September 2014. The decision of the Tribunal was made on 15 August 2014 and order 7 of the Tribunal's orders made on that day required the landlord to advise the tenant in writing by 6pm on 18 August 2014 of the orders that were made. There is no contention by the tenant that that order had not been complied with even though in the Notice of Appeal the tenant stated that it had first received notice of the decision on 21 August 2014. On the basis that the tenant had notice on 18 August 2014 the deadline for filing an Appeal would have been 1 September 2014. On the basis that the Appeal Panel accepts that the tenant did not have notice of the decision until 21 August 2014 the Notice of Appeal should have been filed on 4 September 2014. It was in fact filed on 5 September 2014.
The Appeal Panel is of the view that the time should not be extended under section 41 of the Act primarily because the Appeal Panel is not satisfied that the tenant has established that any injustice will accrue to the tenant by reason of requiring strict compliance with the rules. Accordingly, the Appeal Panel has declined to give leave to appeal.
