############# I'm default separator ##########0
failure to maintain and repair common property - section 62 of theAct
This is an appeal against Adjudicator's order made on 8 August 2013 in SCS 13/22428. In that matter, the appellant had sought an order under sections 62 and 65A of the Act that the brick wall between villa 15, villa 16 and the common property driveway/parking area is to be repaired to comply with the Building Code of Australia, and a second order that the wooden fence for the bin area is to remain.
The Adjudicator considered that any orders under sections 62 and 65 were "inappropriate" and she determined to deal with the application under section 153(1) of the Act
The Adjudicator made the following order:
The appellant seeks an order that the Tribunal affirm, the order made by the Adjudicator on 8 August 2013, but that the decision to invalidate the minutes of the EGM held on 24 April 2013 also include the replacement of the timber fence surrounding the garbage area. In addition the appellant seeks an order under section 62 of the Act that the Owners Corporation maintain and repair the common property.
The Adjudicator had before her evidence that the Owners Corporation was made aware of defects in the brick wall in question as long ago as 2007. An engineering report by Clark Engineering Consultants, dated 7 September 2007, declared that the courtyard wall to villa 15 did not meet the requirements of the Building Code of Australia. The appellant submitted in the adjudication request that despite repeated request to the strata manager to have the wall repaired, the wall remains damaged and unstable. Evidence was given of vehicle damage to the wall of villa 16 in December 2012 and that the emergency repairs undertaken by the Owners Corporation on the wall are defective and were not done in a proper and workmanlike manner.
The Adjudicator stated that the Owners Corporation accept that work is required on the brick surrounds for lots 15 and 16 within the strata scheme.
The Tribunal finds that the Adjudicator failed to adequately address the orders sought by the appellant. Consideration was given by the Adjudicator to the application made under section 65A of the Act and this was dealt with by the making of an order under section 152 of the Act. The Adjudicator found that she was not satisfied that the real dispute between the parties was due to the failure of the owners corporation to comply with its duty under section 62 of the Act to properly maintain and keep the wall in a state of good and serviceable repair. The Adjudicator found that the owners corporation had not refused to comply with their obligations under section 62 of the Act. No reasons were provided as to how this finding was reached on the written evidence presented. The Adjudicator went on to consider the application under section 65A and failed to make orders or dismiss the application that was made under section 62 of the Act.
The appellant has submitted an opinion that the walls of the courtyard between lots 15 and 16 do not meet the BCA and he seeks to rely on the report of Clark Engineering, a number of photographs, and an extract from the Australian Building Codes Board (2007). The appellant has stated that some emergency repair work has been done but that the work is defective and has not been done in a proper and workmanlike manner.
The respondent did not attend the hearing. The respondent sent a letter to the Tribunal, dated 25 November 2013, advising that it will not be attending. The letter indicated that the Owners Corporation has made every effort to ensure all matters requiring repair and or replacement have been carried out as promptly as possible by a competent licensed tradesperson. The Owners Corporation declared that, unfortunately, it is not always possible to have work done as soon as all would like it to be achieved.
Submission was also received from another interested person. Mrs Nelson states in her submission that the executive committee and the strata manager have proceeded to obtain assessments and quotes to repair/replace existing structures to bring all within current Building Code Standards. Mrs Nelson complains about the appellant's unreasonable and objectionable behaviour in relation to this dispute.
This is an appeal under section 177 of the Act. Section 181 of the Act provides that in the determination of appeal from an order of an Adjudicator, the Tribunal may admit new evidence, may determine an appeal by affirming, amending or revoking the order appealed against, or substituting its own order for the one appealed from.
The grounds of appeal submitted by the appellant are that the Adjudicator has failed to consider the application on the grounds on which it was filed.
The condition of the brick fence appears to be an issue that has concerned the Owners Corporation for some time and has concerned the appellant since a vehicle reversed into the wall late in 2012.
There is some evidentiary material before the Tribunal, including photographs and a 2007 building report. However, there is insufficient evidence to determine what the required repair might be. The 2007 building report states that the wall does not meet the Building Code of Australia. The appellant argues that it is evident from the photos that there are insufficient supports and inadequate masonry. This evidence does not allow the Tribunal to be satisfied as to the totality of the repairs which are needed to ensure that the walls meet the BCA standards or that the emergency repairs have been done in a proper and workmanlike manner.
The Owners Corporation has clearly considered the need to maintain and repair the fences, as it was resolved at the AGM in 2013 to replace the fence with a Colorbond R fence. This was the motion determined to be invalid by the Adjudicator in SCS 13/224288.
In summary, the evidence before the Tribunal does not assist to determine exactly what maintenance work is required to be done, nor how soon.
The respondent has submitted that every effort has been made to ensure all matters requiring repair and or replacement have been carried out as promptly as possible. The Owners Corporation conceded that no consideration was given to the 2007 building report of Mr Clarke until 2012. No evidence has been provided about the steps the Owners Corporation is currently taking to ensure compliance with the obligations of section 62 of the Act. No evidence has been provided about any action taken by the Owners Corporation since the Adjudicator's decision made on 8 August 2013 to address this issue.
The Tribunal is not able to conclude on the evidence before it that the owners Corporation is proposing to obtain a building report and to consider it at the next AGM or whether it is intended to rely on the 2007 report of Mr Clarke.
In the practical workings of a strata scheme there are always constraints and priorities in discharging duties under section 62. The duty to maintain which was considered by the New South Wales Supreme Court in Seiwa Pty Ltd v The Owners of Strata Plan 35042 [2006] NSWSC 1157 makes clear that the duty to keep common property in good condition and repair be attended to before these assets fail to serve their purpose.
The only expert evidence before the Tribunal is the 2007 report of Mr Clark. Mr Clark stated that the wall to the courtyard of unit 15 has been built to a standard which is not acceptable to the BCA. The existing wall is not capable of withstanding the specified horizontal load. The noncompliance of the wall with BCA requirements can be dealt with by making suitable modifications to the footings and adding engaged piers at suitable intervals as required by AS 3700.
The Tribunal concludes that the Owners Corporation has failed to comply with section 62 of the Act.
The Tribunal orders that, in accordance with its obligations under section 62 of the Act, the Owners Corporation shall engage an expert builder to report on the courtyard walls. The Tribunal finds that a new report should be obtained, as the report from Mr Clark is now more than six years old. The condition of the walls has changed since that time, in particular since one of the walls was hit by a vehicle, and also because the Building Code of Australia has been amended since 2007. The report should also consider whether the emergency repair work to the wall has been done in a proper and workmanlike manner and is not defective.
The Tribunal has also considered the orders made by the Adjudicator and accepts the submissions made by the appellant that the resolution adopted at the EGM held on 24 April 2013 included the replacement of the garbage area surrounds from timber to Colorbond. For clarity the Tribunal notes that the motion that was passed at the EGM held on 24 April 2013 included both the replacement of the fence and the garbage area surround from timber to Colorbond. The Adjudicator in the decision made on 8 August 2013 found that this motion is invalid. This decision has not been challenged by the Owners Corporation. 
Pursuant to section 62 of the Act, the Owners Corporation shall, on or before 31 March 2014, engage an expert licensed builder to inspect and report on the external courtyard walls between lot 15 and lot 16 to determine whether the walls are compliant with the Building Code of Australia. 
The Owners Corporation shall, on or before 30 June 2014, implement the recommendations of the expert engaged pursuant to order 1 by causing the qualified tradesmen to undertake, in a proper and workmanlike manner, the work recommended by the building expert.
The order of the Adjudicator made on 8 August 2013 in application SCS13/22428 is affirmed.
############# I'm default separator ##########1
Money order for alleged breach of management contract
By an application filed 4 April 2013 the applicants sought a money order in the sum of $9,950.00 alleging financial losses as a consequence of (a) the respondent not arranging tenants for the applicants' units; (b) the respondent not explaining parts of the management agreement and (c) the failure of the respondent's systems and internal processes.
The Tribunal has jurisdiction to hear and determine this application pursuant to the legislation referred to above. The applicants are consumers. The respondent is a supplier of services in regard to the management of rental premises. The parties entered into agreements in respect of such management. The claim is a consumer claim and it is brought within the time limits in the legislation.
A directions hearing was held on 19 April 2013. The case could not be settled on that day and it was set down for hearing. Owing to the unavailability of one of the parties the hearing did not take place until 11 October 2013 and 16 December 2013. Thereafter the decision was reserved pending the giving of these reasons. The hearing was sound recorded.
Oral evidence was given by Ms. McMullen, Ms. Seiler and Ms. Robinson. A considerable number of documents were tendered. It is not practical to recount all the evidence of the witnesses and the contents of the documents. In making findings I shall endeavour to refer to the main features of the evidence. Findings are made on the balance of probabilities. The applicant has the onus of proof.
The applicants own three units at Elanora. Only two of the units (units 2 and 3) are the subject of these proceedings. Prior to June 2013 the rental of units 2 and 3 was managed by the Owner Property Group. That firm was purchased by the respondent and from 30 June 2013 the applicants became customers of the respondent.
In May 2013 the applicants received a brochure and related material from the respondent in respect of the potential management of the units. That brochure states that the units would be advertised at the following sites: Real Holidays, Pottsville Beach First National, Real Estate.com, Home Away and Stayz if the applicants subscribe to the latter.
On 30 June 2013 the parties entered into written management agreements. They state that the units were to be advertised only at realestate.com.au and on a window card presumably at the respondent's office.
The applicants' claim that the respondent failed to advertise the units for rental at the sites referred to in the brochure cannot be maintained because (a) the brochure is not an agreement between the parties and (b) the advertising referred to in the brochure was superseded by the advertising that was agreed by the parties when the management agreements were made.
There is a further complication in that the agreement for unit 3 provided for the applicants to pay the respondent $150.00 for advertising on an online booking system but on the agreement for unit 2 the requirement for this payment was crossed out. There cannot be an allegation about unit 2 online booking because it was removed from the agreement. In regard to the agreement re unit 3 the only online advertising agreed to by the parties was at realestate.com.au. That was the only online booking that the respondent was contracted to perform. The applicants subsequently advertised at "Rent a Home" and "Home and Away" but those sites are not mentioned in the agreement and are not part of the contract between the parties. The applicants were not charged for any online advertising.
I am satisfied that the respondent only had to advertise the units via the window card and at realestate.com.au and that advertising was performed.
The applicants' claim that realestate.com.au should not have been an advertising site because it only relates to permanent rentals cannot succeed. The applicants have obtained this information after the agreements were made. The applicants agreed to this site for advertising when the agreements were made.
The applicants' claim that the respondent should have advertised on other sites (such as the ones they used in 2013) cannot succeed because the agreements specified where the advertising was to be placed.
The applicants' claim that the respondent did not advise them as to various parts of the agreement cannot succeed. The respondent does not have that obligation. The obligation is on the applicants to satisfy themselves through legal advice or otherwise as to the terms of the contract they signed.
The agreements were terminated on 1 January 2013. The term of the agreement was six months. In that period the respondent's employee Jess Stafford was primarily responsible for the letting of the units. Ms Stafford is no longer employed by the respondent and did not give evidence. However on one of the documents there is a handwritten note from Ms Stafford dated 5 July 2012 which states "Advised ownershad a house swap booking for the Xmas period - initially there was a permanent tenant in one of the flats - they were advertising just to generate more interest - all bookings to be run past the owner before taking any deposit". I accept that this file note is genuine. On 7 August 2013 the applicants provided the respondent with a document outlining inter alia that they would advise block out times for house-swap people when known, that the house swap people would be in unit 3, that short term rental people would be in unit 2 and that the applicants were to be advised by email of details of all prospective clients, either holiday or short term, before accepting bookings. The units had a sign on the front fence indicating that they were for rent with a contact number for the applicants if a person was interested.
The applicants were overseas between July and November 2012. On 3 August 2012 Ms McMullen sent an email to Ms Stafford requesting details of where the units were listed on web sites for holiday and short term rental. Ms Stafford replied stating that the units were advertised in the window display and on a holiday brochure. She said that she would advertise them as a short term permanent rental and holiday rental. The applicants must have been aware on 3 August 2012 that the advertising was limited to the window display and the holiday brochure. They must have been aware that the units were not advertised on the web sites they subsequently went to in 2013.
The respondent was unable to obtain any bookings for the applicants between July and December 2012. This was probably due to the limited amount of advertising agreed to in the management agreements. Ms Stafford had her concerns. On 11 October 2012 she sent an internal email as follows: 
I am satisfied that the problems outlined by Ms Stafford were genuine. I am satisfied that there was a condition placed by the applicants that no tenant could be accepted unless approved by the applicants. The applicants were to be emailed with details of the prospective tenants. No tenants were obtained and presumably the applicants were not emailed with details of potential tenants. The applicants, whilst overseas for the majority of the term of the agreements with the respondent, must have known that there were no tenants but did nothing about it. If there was no success with the rental via the provisions in the management agreement the applicants should have contacted the respondent to make other arrangements for the advertising of the units. They did not act until returning to Australia in November 2012. It is clear that the applicants secured tenants after January 2013 using the "Rent A Home" and "Home and Away" sites. However, as previously outlined the respondent was not contracted to use these sites.
I am satisfied that the respondent is not in breach of contract and it has not been negligent. The units were advertised in the restricted way provided for in the agreements and no tenants came forward.
If in another place this finding is challenged I need to say that even if the respondent was liable to the applicant it would be impossible to determine the quantum of the claim because of the following: (a) The applicants say they received $14,514.62 in rental income between July 2011 and June 2012. The tax records show income of $14,473.00 and expenses of $52,480.00 resulting in a tax loss of $38,007.00.
The application is dismissed.
############# I'm default separator ##########2
Renewal - whether previous orders made by the Tribunal had been compliedwith and appropriate orders
In related proceedings MV 13/1194 ("the proceedings") the applicant sought to recover an amount of $20,000.00, being the purchase price for a Ford Explorer 2004 motor vehicle which he had purchased from the respondent on 19 January 2013 ("the vehicle"). 
At the time of sale, the vehicle was shown to have an odometer reading of 137212 kms.
The vehicle was sold subject to a Form 4 warranty for 3 months or 5,000kms. The vehicle was immediately subject to mechanical problems, first reported by the applicant to the respondent on or about 23 January 2013.
The respondent carried out some repairs to the vehicle subject to warranty in or about late January 2013 and following the intervention of the Department of Fair Trading, a written agreement was reached between the parties and dated 27 February 2013 for further repairs to be carried out.
The respondent's evidence in the proceedings was that the vehicle "has never been brough (sic) in for us to repair our agreements."The respondent asserted that the applicant denied the respondent the opportunity to effect any agreed repairs. From this evidence the Tribunal understands that the agreement reached between the parties with the assistance of the Department of Fair Trading was never completed.
The applicant filed the proceedings on 3 March 2013. The proceedings were heard by the Tribunal on 6 June 2013 at Gosford, and after hearing argument, the Tribunal made orders which included the following:
These orders were in almost identical terms to the agreement reached previously between the parties and referred to at paragraph 4 above in these reasons. A significant difference was the order extending the warranty period, which had otherwise expired.
In its reasons for decision, the Tribunal indicated that it was not satisfied there was a "major failure" of the vehicle within the meaning of Section 260 of the Australian Consumer Law and as such the Tribunal would not be justified in ordering a full refund of the purchase price of the vehicle. In lieu thereof, the Tribunal made the work order as set out at paragraph 6 above. 
The respondent sought to complete the work on the vehicle as ordered by 30 June 13, and after a short delay, returned the vehicle to the applicant around mid-July. The vehicle was not repaired to the satisfaction of the applicant.
The applicant filed a rehearing application on 21 October 2013 under Section 68 of the Act.
On 24 October 2013, the Tribunal refused the rehearing application on the basis that the applicant had already applied to renew the proceedings and that it was preferable for the renewal proceedings to be disposed of first before any consideration of a fresh hearing.
These proceedings constitute the renewal application and were heard at Gosford on Tuesday 17 December 2013.
The renewal application was receipted by the Tribunal's Newcastle Registry on 25 July 2013 and given proceedings number MV 13/39572. In this application, the applicant seeks an order for payment of $600.00 and an order to rectify faulty goods or provide services. It is implicit that the Tribunal may make its own orders in place of those sought by the applicant, where the circumstance so requires.
It is important to note that several directions were ordered during the course of this renewal application before it came on for hearing.
The first were orders made on 19 August 2013 which orders set out in part the following:
The directions made on that occasion required the parties to exchange documents upon which they intended to rely.
A copy of the orders made on 19 August 2013 was produced in evidence at the hearing. The order contains the usual notation at the foot of the document which sets out as follows:
The notation is repeated on page 2 of the orders made and dated 19 August 2013. In general terms, the notation warns the parties of the risks of not complying with the orders.
Neither party complied with the orders for the exchange of documents by the due dates. An extension of time was sought for that exchange to occur. The Registry wrote to each of the parties by letter dated 6 September 2013 indicating that an extension of time for compliance with the procedural directions was being considered, and sought a response.
The matter was then relisted for further directions at Gosford on 18 October 2013 and the Tribunal again made further orders including as follows:
A copy of that direction and the orders it contained was sent to each of the parties. The orders again included the notation at the foot thereof in respect of Section 30(2) of the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 in relation to compliance.
Subsequently and by letter dated 19 November 2013 (received 26 November 2013 at the Newcastle Registry of the Tribunal) the applicant complied with the procedural directions by forwarding a bundle of documents. Copies of those documents were acknowledged by the respondent's representative, Mr Wall, as having been received by the respondent.
The respondent for its part did not comply with the procedural directions and did not serve any documents on the applicant, other than those documents which had been tendered in the proceedings. The only documents sent by the respondent in this renewal application were under cover of a facsimile dated 16 September 2013, sent to the Tribunal and received by the Registry on or about that date, but not sent to the applicant.
A further extension of time for compliance had been granted by the Tribunal and sent to each of the parties by letter from the Registrar dated 7 November 2013, in which the directions were as follows:
The Registrar's letter did not contain the warning as had been attached to the copy of the orders made on 18 October 2013, and the respondent may not have been alerted to the possible consequences of non-compliance at that time, although suffice it to point out that the respondent nonetheless had ample opportunity to provide and serve copies of its documents on the applicant, but had simply failed to do so.
No further directions were made before the hearing and the only documents provided by each party in accordance with the direction made 7 November 2013 were those documents provided by the applicant.
As a consequence, the Tribunal determined for these renewal proceedings to rely only upon those documents produced by the applicant. 
In the Tribunal's view, no serious prejudice was suffered by the respondent resulting from that decision, as the Tribunal also had regard to the Tribunal's file from the proceedings, and the written material produced by the parties in the proceedings at the June hearing. 
In the Tribunal's view, procedural fairness has been provided to both parties and the respondent has elected not to meet the applicant's expert report with an expert report of its own, and notwithstanding the appropriate warning in the form of the notation referred to above, on at least two prior occasions when orders were issued to the parties. 
Mr. Wall for the respondent indicated that he understood the position with relation to the documents, indicating that he regarded himself as the respondent's expert and sufficiently qualified to criticize where necessary the applicant's evidence as he saw fit.
The applicant attended in person at the hearing and represented himself. The respondent was represented by its manager, Colin Wall. Both the applicant, Mr Robinson and Mr Wall for the respondent were sworn and gave oral evidence.
The applicant in addition relied upon the bundle of documents which he had provided and which were tendered in evidence. Those documents included the following: (a) The motor vehicle sale contract dated 19 January 2013.
Other than for document (a), being the sale contract, the documents were additional to the evidence previously provided in the proceedings heard by the Tribunal in June 2013.
Mr Wall's oral evidence for the respondent sought to deal mainly with the allegations of faulty or defective work and his attempts in overseeing such work to comply with the Tribunal's orders made in the proceedings, and which work was done on the vehicle at the end of June, beginning July 2013.
The applicant Mr Robinson, in both his oral argument and by reference to the documents produced by him, appeared to misconceive the nature of the renewal proceedings. 
The Tribunal had specified in the procedural order made on 19 August 2013 what the issue was, namely "whether there has been non-compliance"with the work ordersand what appropriately might now be done to rectify that circumstance, if it were found to be the case.
The applicant however sought to effectively re-hear the whole of his complaints, including his initial consumer complaint related to the sale of the vehicle and the finding made against him as regards the Australian Consumer Law and the vehicle's fitness for purpose. That issue had been raised and finally dealt with in the proceedings.
In dealing with the specific matters in the work order of 6 June 2013, the applicant's oral evidence included the following: (a) That the respondent had not complied with the orders for reason that when the vehicle was returned to him by the respondent a number of complaints relating to the vehicle had not been resolved. The history since the orders on 6/06/13 shows that the applicant arranged with the respondent's Mr Wall for the delivery of the vehicle for repair on 17 June 2013. On that occasion the applicant took the vehicle to a business called Trackside Automotive where he was told by Mr Wall that certain work would be carried out. (b) On attending at Trackside Automotive, the applicant had a falling out with a person at that business who declined to do any work either on behalf of the respondent or for the applicant.
There was a dispute between the parties as to when the respondent determined it completed the work. The applicant asserted that he telephoned Mr Wall and was told he could come and collect the vehicle on 30 June 2013, which was the date due. The applicant duly attended the respondent's premises but was told if further work was needed to be done, as requested by the applicant, the vehicle was in fact not ready for collection.
On 9 July 2013 the applicant contacted Mr Wall again and asserts he was told the vehicle was "ready". Again the applicant attended the premises to discover the vehicle was not ready.
On 13 July 2013 Mr Wall delivered the vehicle personally to the respondent's home. The applicant asserts he immediately noted that the engine light remained "on" and that the mirror had not been fixed. Mr Wall conceded that the mirror had not been fixed.
On 14 July 2013, the applicant could not start the vehicle and contacted the respondent. On 16 July 2013, the respondent directed the applicant to a service centre at Gorokan, where the vehicle apparently was road tested and provided with a roadworthy certificate for the purposes of registration.
On 23 July 2013, the applicant asserts he spoke to Nicole at the respondent's premises complaining that the LPG was still leaking.
The Tribunal notes that the applicant dated the application for these renewal proceedings on 13 July 2013, the day the vehicle had been returned to him by the respondent.
On 6 June 2013, the respondent was ordered by the Tribunal to carry out specific work and to attend to the following: (a) Ensure the front end of the vehicle is serviceable and the wheels are aligned.
In addition, the applicant was able to make any further warranty claims on the vehicle which existed up to and including 30 June 2013. In respect of those claims, the applicant included the following additional complaints to the respondent for rectification work as extended warranty claims: (a) Investigate the engine light which remained "on".
The items referred to as "extended warranty claims" in paragraph 46 above were not part of the complaints subject to the work order in the proceedings, but were further complaints raised following the proceedings and within the extended warranty period ordered.
In respect of these items together with other work on the vehicle, the applicant asserts that he was required to expend the following additional amounts to render the vehicle operable: (a) On Alan Ross as per invoice for investigation of the gas leak $66.00.
Items (d), (e) and (f) above are disallowed in these proceedings as there was insufficient evidence produced to show whether these claimed warranty issues were in fact warranted or still defective or in fact repaired.
In addition to the above, the applicant sought recovery of an amount which he estimated at $870.00, being for a period of 10 months when the vehicle was not operable. The applicant had paid for registration and green slip insurance, but was unable to use the vehicle throughout that period and sought reimbursement of those registration and insurance costs, pro rata, for the period of non-use. The Tribunal disallows this particular claim as there is no satisfactory evidence provided for the amount claimed for the period alleged.
The applicant also sought recovery of the costs of the report from Mr Potts which he claimed he had been ordered by the Tribunal to provide and in respect of which he paid a sum of $1,600.00. This claim is dealt with later in these reasons.
The applicant claimed a sum estimated by him at $900.00 for additional travel costs incurred by him when he was unable to use the vehicle to drive to or from work. No satisfactory evidence of those travel costs was produced showing what amounts and to whom such amounts were paid or when and so this claim was also disallowed.
The total amount claimed by the applicant for these items was in a sum of approximately $8,800.00. The applicant abandoned any claim for further work to be completed by the respondent, as he had lost confidence in the respondent's ability to effect repairs and the applicant asked the Tribunal at the hearing to make a money order for compensatory damages.
The respondent for its part denied the orders had not been complied with, save for the warranty claim for the mirror which the applicant had caused to be replaced at this own expense. The respondent had apparently been unable to either fix the mirror or obtain the replacement part.
The largest item in dispute was the warranty claim arising from the continuing issue with the engine warning light and what caused it to remain "on". The applicant asserts that it was caused by failure of the catalytic converter which now needs to be replaced, and which will cost the applicant between $3,000.00 to $4,462.00. Two quotations were produced by the applicant in support of these amounts. 
Mr Wall denied there was any problem with the catalytic converter under warranty, or that it was the responsibility of the respondent to repair or replace. The respondent on Mr Wall's oral evidence had attended to each of the items the subject of the work orders in the proceedings by using variously its own tradesman and contractors. It was Mr Wall's opinion that the applicants other claims under warranty were simply not made out. 
Mr Wall also complained that the applicant had not provided the respondent with an opportunity to repair the catalytic converter, and if that claim were upheld, that the respondent ought to be given another opportunity to repair it. 
In relation to the remaining warranty claims, Mr Wall asserted, and the applicant conceded, that the bonnet struts had been replaced and the headlight resealed. The applicant during the hearing abandoned any further complaints he may still have for alleged warranty repairs on the basis there were simply "too many" for him to be able to deal with or prove.
The Tribunal noted in this regard that the vehicle was almost 9 years old at the date of purchase with a significant number of kilometers on the odometer. The renewal proceedings were not an opportunity for the applicant to raise yet further alleged warranty issues not previously dealt with and having regard to the previous finding by the Tribunal in the proceedings that the vehicle was "was fit for purpose" within the meaning of the Australian Consumer Law. 
As for the respondent, there was no additional documentary support for the work done or allegedly performed by the respondent. The witness, Mr Wall, although a licensed mechanic was not the person who carried out the work. He was the manager who had oversight of the issue on the respondent's behalf. Mr. Wall submitted that perhaps it might be appropriate for the respondent to investigate any further claims and the Tribunal might adjourn proceedings for that to occur. The Tribunal was not persuaded that the respondent, in all the circumstances, should be provided yet a further opportunity for investigation or repairs to the vehicle.
The applicant in evidence relied principally upon the report of Mr. Colin Potts. The Tribunal accepts that Mr Potts is a properly qualified expert within the requirements of the Tribunal's Practice Direction for the giving of evidence by such experts. Mr Potts was not called for cross examination by the respondent. 
Mr Potts states in his report of 5 November 2013, that he inspected and road tested the applicant's vehicle and formed his conclusions accordingly. In his summary at page 10 of the report Mr Potts notes as follows:
The expert report does not deal directly with each of the items the subject of the Tribunal's orders. The only exception is the reference to the catalytic converter needing to be replaced.
In relation to the catalytic converter, the applicant's evidence is contained also in the invoice from ELN Ford dated 7 November 2013 which sets out, inter alia as follows:
This evidence supports the applicant's complaint that the engine light remaining "on" was due to the faulty catalytic converter which needed to be replaced under the extended warranty and more probably than not was a defect existing at the time of purchase.
Section 43 of the Consumer Trader and Tenancy Tribunal Act 2001 is the source of jurisdiction for the Tribunal to deal with this renewal application by the applicant. It is useful to set out the relevant provisions as follows:
The application was brought within time and in accordance with the prescribed notice, and the operation of the orders made on 6 June 2013 has not been suspended. It is open therefore to the Tribunal to make orders in accordance with the requirements of Sub Section (4) (a) or (b).
In presenting his case, the applicant sought in effect to re-run much of the evidence which was dealt with before the Tribunal in the proceedings. In the Tribunal's view, this renewal hearing is not an opportunity to re-run the whole case, particularly by revisiting matters already dealt with by the Tribunal.Much time was wasted in these proceedings as a consequence.
It is an opportunity however, for the applicant to have the Tribunal adjudicate on the issue of whether the orders made for work to be carried out, in this instance, by 30 June 2013 were in fact complied with by the respondent, and whether any other orders are now appropriate.
It is common ground that the orders were not complied with by the due date but in the Tribunal's view, nothing turns on that issue because the applicant effectively waived the deadline, allowing the respondent a further two weeks to complete the work. As the work had not been completed by 13 July 2013, the applicant sought renewal.
Based on the evidence of the applicant, and noting the lack of documentary evidence from the respondent, the Tribunal must be satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the work attempted by the respondent to comply with the orders was unsuccessful, or has failed to meet a reasonable standard of workmanship, or was not completed at all.
In that regard, and having carefully considered the evidence of the witnesses, the Tribunal is satisfied in respect of the work orders as follows: (a) That the first order in relation to the front end of the vehicle being serviceable and the wheels aligned was complied with by the respondent;
That leaves the further warranty claims for determination. The Tribunal is satisfied on the civil test that the applicant is entitled to be compensated for the following warranty items not completed by the respondent: (a) Replacement mirror at a cost of $172.69.
In respect of these two items therefore, in accordance with Section 43(4)(a) the Tribunal will make an order for the respondent to pay the applicant the sum of $3,172.69.
The Tribunal accepts the applicant's submission and is satisfied in all the circumstances that it is not appropriate to make any further work orders.
In addition, the Tribunal is satisfied in the circumstances of this case that it further should make an order under Section 43(4)(a) for the following: (a) The cost of the investigation incurred by the applicant and evidenced by the invoice of Mr Allan Ross in the sum of $66.00.
The Tribunal also will allow the applicant the following: (a) The taxi fee of $48.00 for travelling to and from the respondent's premises when the vehicle was not available for collection on 30 June 2013.
The total of all those items amounts to a sum of $3,636.69 and there will be a money order accordingly.
The applicant also claims the costs of the preparation of Mr Potts' report. The applicant understood that he was required to provide that report because of the directions made by the Tribunal on 18 October 2013.
Such an order is by way of direction only and does not require a party in a mandatory sense to produce an expert report. This order was misunderstood by the applicant.
The Tribunal has considered whether or not the substantial cost incurred by the applicant in producing the report in the sum of $1,600.00 ought to be re-imbursed.
There is no doubt that the evidence of Mr Potts has assisted the applicant in terms of the Tribunal's finding as to the warranty claim for the catalytic converter. In that regard the report was a significant factor in terms of the evidence taken into account and was not seriously challenged by the respondent.
Such reports however are usual in such proceedings and the Tribunal does not regard the obtaining of the mechanic's report as "exceptional" within the meaning of that term, as it is applied to costs' orders in the Tribunal. 
Parties are encouraged to bring their cases in the Tribunal as efficiently and cheaply as possible, and howsoever they deem fit, without facing the threat of costs' orders against them other than in exceptional circumstances, and which might otherwise deter a party's willingness and ability to access affordable relief.
In the Tribunal's view, this is not such a case where a costs' order for the expert report should be made against the respondent, there being no exceptional circumstances which might warrant such an order.
The Tribunal has reviewed the submissions made by the parties as it must do in the context of these renewal proceedings to determine whether and to what extent its orders have been complied with, those orders having been made on 6 June 2013.
Other than for the reasons set out above as to the extended warranty claims, the Tribunal is not satisfied to the requisite standard of proof that the orders made on 6 June 2013 were not complied with by the respondent and those claims by the applicant will be dismissed. 
There will be a money order under s 43(4) which the Tribunal now deems appropriate for those extended warranty claims successfully proved and not dealt with at the earlier hearing, but no orders for any further work to be completed by the respondent.
The respondent is to pay the applicant the total sum of $3,636.69 immediately.
The application is otherwise dismissed.
